The city was visited in 333 BC by Alexander the Great , who envisioned himself as the new Achilles and carried the `` Iliad '' with him , but his court biographers do not mention the spear , which he would indeed have touched with excitement .
Aristotle ( , `` Aristotélēs '' ) ( 384 BC – 322 BC ) was a Greek philosopher , a student of Plato and teacher of Alexander the Great .
Alexander III of Macedon ( 356–323 BC ) , popularly known as Alexander the Great ( , `` Mégas Aléxandros '' ) , was a Greek king ( basileus ) of Macedon .
In the 4th century BC Alexander the Great conquered the peninsula .
In 332 BC , Alexander the Great conquered Egypt with little resistance from the Persians and was welcomed by the Egyptians as a deliverer .
Livy contemplated an alternative 4th Century BC in which Alexander the Great expanded his empire westward instead of eastward ; Livy asked , `` What would have been the results for Rome if she had been engaged in war with Alexander ? '' Joanot Martorell 's 1490 epic romance `` Tirant lo Blanc '' , written when the loss of Constantinople to the Turks was still a recent and traumatic memory to Christian Europe , tells the story of the valiant knight Tirant The White from Brittany who gets to the embattled remnant of the Byzantine Empire , becomes a Megaduke and commander of its armies , and manages to fight off the invading Ottoman armies of Mehmet II , save the city from Islamic conquest , and even chase the Turks deeper into lands they had conquered before .
Philippus claimed descent from Alexander the Great , and was elected consul in 56 BC .
Alexander the Great had led a coalition of the Greek states to war with Persia in 336 BC , but his Greek soldiers were hostages for the behavior of their states as much as allies .
In 330 BC it fell to Alexander the Great and after his death by Seleucid Greece .
It was founded around a small pharaonic town `` c. '' 331 BC by Alexander the Great .
Alexandria was founded by Alexander the Great in April 331 BC as ( `` Alexándreia '' ) .
They did so at the invitation of their long-time ally , king Philip V of Macedon , a direct descendant of Antigonus , one of the Diadochi , the generals of Alexander the Great who had shared out his empire after his death in 323 BC .
Emperor Wu of Han ( r. 141 BC-87 BC ) went to war with the Dayuan for this exact reason , since the Dayuan were hording a massive amount of tall , strong , Central Asian bred horses in the Hellenized-Greek region of Fergana ( established a bit earlier by Alexander the Great ) .
The Persian army of Xerxes I and later the Greek army of Alexander the Great crossed the Dardanelles in opposite directions to invade each other 's lands , in 480 BC and 334 BC respectively .
The 5th century BC Athenian `` tetradrachmon '' ( `` four drachma '' ) coin was the most widely used coin in the Greek world prior to the time of Alexander the Great .
Alexander the Great met stiff resistance there ( in 332 BC ) .
However , in 338 BC the rising power of Macedon overcame Greece , and under Alexander the Great turned its attention eastward .
It was coined by the historian Johann Gustav Droysen to refer to the spreading of Greek culture and colonization over the non-Greek lands that were conquered by Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC , compared to `` Hellenic '' which describes Greek culture in its native form .
The nominal start of the Hellenistic period is usually taken as the 323 BC death of Alexander the Great in Babylon .
The detailed history of Afghanistan begins around 330 BC with the arrival of Alexander the Great ( Sikandar ) and his Greek army although civilization had existed on the land for thousands of years .
The Achaemenid dynasty of the Persian Empire , founded by Cyrus the Great , ruled an area from Greece and Turkey to the Indus River and Central Asia during the 6th to 4th centuries BC. Alexander the Great conquered this empire in the 4th century BC .
In late 330 BC , Alexander the Great captured the Arian capital that was called Artacoana .
Various invaders conquered the land after Nebuchadnezzar 's death , including Cyrus the Great in 539 BC and Alexander the Great in 331 BC , who died there in 323 BC .
In the 6th century BC , it became part of the Achaemenid Empire , then was conquered by Alexander the Great and remained under Greek rule under the Seleucid dynasty for nearly two centuries .
Jericho went from being an administrative center under Persian rule , to serving as the private estate of Alexander the Great between 336 and 323 BC after his conquest of the region .
In 3rd century BC , the Ancient Greeks colonized the island , Failaka , on today 's Kuwait coast under Alexander the Great and named it `` Ikaros '' .
Alexander the Great explored the area during his conquest of the Achaemenid Empire in 330 BC but did n't mention any city by the name of Kabul .
Kandahar was founded in 330 BC by Alexander the Great , near the site of the ancient city of Mundigak ( established around 3000 BC ) .
After Alexander the Great died unexpectedly at age 32 , Ptolemy Soter announced himself king in 305 BC , and ordered its construction shortly thereafter .
It was added to the empire of Alexander the Great , who notably conquered Tyre ( 332 BC ) by extending a still-extant causeway from the mainland in a seven-month effort .
It fell to Alexander the Great in 332 BC and after his death it became part of the Greek Seleucid Empire , by around 150 BC Mesopotamia was under the control of the Parthians .
Gymnosophy and religious nakedness. `` and American_Gymnosophical_Association '' In the fourth century BC , Alexander the Great encountered , in India , wandering groups of naked holy men whom he dubbed the `` naked philosophers '' .
In 334 BC - 331 BC Alexander the Great , also known in the Zoroastrian `` Arda Wiraz Nâmag '' as `` the accursed Alexander '' , defeated Darius III in the battles of Granicus , Issus and Gaugamela , swiftly conquering the Persian Empire by 331 BC. Alexander 's empire broke up shortly after his death , and Alexander 's general , Seleucus I Nicator , tried to take control of Persia , Mesopotamia , and later Syria and Asia Minor .
Though elements of Koine Greek took shape during the late Classical Era , the post-Classical period of Greek dates from the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC , when cultures under Hellenistic sway in turn began to influence the language .
The Sacred Band of Thebes ( an elite military unit ) famously fell at the battle of Chaeronea in 338 BC against Philip II and Alexander the Great .
Philip was content to deprive Thebes of her dominion over Boeotia ; but an unsuccessful revolt in 335 BC against his son Alexander the Great was punished by Alexander and his Greek allies by the destruction of the city , except , according to tradition , the house of the poet Pindar and the temples .
The Archaic period gives way to the Classical period around 500 BC , in turn succeeded by the Hellenistic period at the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BCE .
Alexander the Great died at an early age in 323 BC without having had time to put into place any plans for his succession .
Two hundred years later , in 333 BC , the armies of Alexander the Great arrived in Perga during his war of conquest against the Persians .
In 334 BC , the city was liberated from Persian rule by Alexander the Great .
Both authors list the distances of routes traveled by Alexander the Great ( r. 336-323 BC ) as measured by his bematists Diognetus and Baeton .
A few years after the death of Alexander the Great , Macedonian king Antigonus — who had taken control of much of Asia Minor upon the death of Alexander ( under whom Antigonus had served as a general ) — probably after his victory over Eumenes , in 316 BC , rebuilt the town , and called it , after himself , Antigoneia ( ) .
The destruction of Thebes by Alexander the Great ( 335 BC ) seems to have removed the political energy of the Boeotians .
During the troubled period following the death of Alexander the Great , Mithridates Ktistes was for a time in the service of Antigonus , one of Alexander 's successors , and successfully maneuvering in this unsettled time managed , shortly after 302 BC , to create the Kingdom of Pontus which would be ruled by his descendants mostly bearing the same name , till 64 BC .
In 333 BC , while wintering at Gordium , Alexander the Great attempted to untie the knot .
375–316 BC ) was a Greek princess of Epirus , daughter of king Neoptolemus I of Epirus , the fourth wife of the king of Macedonia , Philip II , and mother of Alexander the Great .
After Alexander the Great 's death in Babylon in 323 BC , his wife Roxana bore him a posthumus son who was called Alexander IV .
Alexander the Great later captured it from the Persians in 334 BC .
Ptolemy I Soter I ( Greek : , `` Ptolemaĩos Sōtḗr '' , i.e. Ptolemy ( pronounced /'tɒləmi ) the Savior , ca.367 BC—ca.283 BC ) was a Macedonian Greek general under Alexander the Great who became ruler of Egypt ( 323 BC—283 BC ) and founder of both the Ptolemaic Kingdom and the Ptolemaic Dynasty .
Antiochus I was half Persian , his mother Apama being one of the eastern princesses whom Alexander the Great had given as wives to his generals in 324 BC .
Seleucus I ( given the surname by later generations of Nicator ( which means victorious in ancient Macedonian ) , Greek : Σέλευκος Νικάτωρ ( ) , i.e. Seleucus the Victor ) ( `` ca. '' 358 BC–281 BC ) was a Macedonian officer of Alexander the Great and one of the Diadochi .
Alexander the Great died without a successor in Babylon on June 10 , 323 BC .
Perdiccas ( , `` Perdikkas '' ; died 321 BC or 320 BC ) was one of Alexander the Great 's generals .
In 322 BC , he broke off his engagement with Nicaea , daughter of Antipater , because Olympias offered him the hand of Cleopatra , a sister of Alexander the Great .
The cultural dominance of the Athenian Empire and the later adoption of Attic Greek by king Philip II of Macedon ( 382-336 BC ) , father of the conqueror Alexander the Great , were the two keys that ensured the eventual victory of Attic over other Greek dialects and the spread of its descendant , `` Koine '' , throughout Alexander 's Hellenic empire .
The city remained in Persian hands until 331 BC , when the soldiers of the Macedonian conqueror Alexander the Great entered the city .
In 339 BC , it was unsuccessfully besieged by Philip II ( priests of the Getae persuaded him to conclude a treaty ) but surrendered to Alexander the Great in 335 BC , and was later ruled by his diadochus Lysimachus , against whom it rebelled in 313 BC as part of a coalition with other Pontic cities and the Getae .
Antigonus I Monophthalmus ( , `` Antigonus the One-eyed '' , 382 BC - 301 BC ) son of Philip from Elimeia , was a Macedonian nobleman , general , and satrap under Alexander the Great .
Perseus ( Greek : `` Περσεύς '' ) ( ca. 212 BC - 166 BC ) was the last king ( `` Basileus '' ) of the Antigonid dynasty , who ruled the successor state in Macedon created upon the death of Alexander the Great .
The Battle of Pydna in 168 BC between Rome and the Macedonian Antigonid dynasty saw the further ascendancy of Rome in the Hellenic/Hellenistic world and the end of the Antigonid line of kings , whose power traced back to Alexander the Great .
After invading Persia , Alexander the Great sent the main force of his army to Persepolis in the year 330 BC by the Royal Road .
But Kassites again fought on the Persian side in the Battle of Gaugamela in 331 BC , in which the Persian Empire fell to Alexander the Great , according to Diodorus Siculus ( 17.59 ) ( who called them `` Kossaei '' ) and Curtius Rufus ( 4.12 ) ( who called them `` inhabitants of the Cossaean mountains '' ) .
The Sogdian Rock or Rock of Ariamazes , a fortress in Sogdiana , was captured in 327 BC by the forces of Alexander the Great ; after an extended campaign putting down Sogdian resistance and founding military outposts manned by his Macedonian veterans , Alexander united Sogdiana with Bactria into one satrapy .
The reconstruction of Piraeus went on during the period of Alexander the Great , but this revival of the town was quashed by Roman Lucius Cornelius Sulla , who captured and totally destroyed Piraeus in 86 BC .
Nearchus or Nearch ( ; c. 360 - 300 BC ; sometimes written Neärchus or Neärch ) was one of the officers , a navarch , in the army of Alexander the Great .
Anatolia was heavily Hellenized following the conquests of Alexander the Great , and it is generally thought that by the 1st century BC the native languages of the area were extinct .
There were tensions between Hellenism and Judaism following the conquests of Alexander the Great , see for example the Maccabean Revolt of 167 BC .
After the conquests of Alexander the Great in the late 300 's BC , a new international dialect known as Koine or Common Greek developed , largely based on Attic Greek , but with influence from other dialects .
During the succession struggle between Ptolemy and Antigonus that followed Alexander the Great 's death in 323 BC , Kyrenia was subdued under the rule of the kingdom of Lapithos that allied itself with Antigonus .
The lands of the former Kingdom of Israel and Kingdom of Judah ( c. 930 BC–586 BC ) , had been occupied by Babylonia , the Achaemenid Empire , and Alexander the Great 's Hellenic Macedonian empire ( c. 330 BC ) , although Jewish religious practice and culture had persisted and even flourished during certain periods .
Hellenistic rule came with the arrival of Alexander the Great in the area in 332 BC .
In 342 BC , it was conquered by Philip II of Macedon , the father of Alexander the Great , who renamed it `` Φιλιππόπολις '' , `` Philippopolis '' or `` the city of Philip '' in his own honour .
In the 4th century BC , Cyprus was conquered by Alexander the Great and subsequently ruled by the Ptolemaic Egypt until 58 BC , when it was incorporated into the Roman Empire .
Beginning with the collapse of the Hittite Empire , c. 1191-1189 BC , invasions from the west caused a number of small kingdoms to take control of the plain , as follows : Kue Assyrians , 9th century BC ; Cilician Kingdom , Persians , 6th century BC ; Alexander the Great in 333 BC ; Seleucids ; the pirates of Cilicia ; and Roman statesman Pompey the Great .
Europeans first came in contact with elephants in 327 BC , when Alexander the Great descended into India from the Hindu Kush , but Alexander was quick to adopt them .
He dated Apelles to the 112th Olympiad ( 332-329 BC ) , possibly because he had produced a portrait of Alexander the Great .
The Achaemenids were finally overthrown by the conquest of Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
Alexander the Great conquered the territory in the fourth century BC on his way to Central Asia , around the time that the Silk Road was established as a major trading route between Asia and the Mediterranean Region .
It was said to have been the site of Alexander the Great 's landing in Mesopotamia in 325 BC .
The city was taken by Alexander the Great in 331 BC .
Alexander IV Aegus ( Greek : `` Ἀλέξανδρος Aἰγός '' — 323–309 BC ) was the son of Alexander the Great ( Alexander III of Macedon ) and the princess Roxana , of Bactria .
When Antipater died in 319 BC he left Polyperchon , a Macedonian general who had served under Philip II and Alexander the Great , as his successor , passing over his own son , Cassander .
In 323 BC , Alexander the Great led his army into Persia , defeating Darius III , conquering Babylon , and taking control of the Persian Empire .
The area in which the border runs has been inhabited by ethnic Pashtun tribes since at least the time of Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
Hephaestion ( Greek : , alternative spelling : `` Hephaistion '' ; c. 356 BC – 324 BC ) , son of Amyntor , was a Macedonian nobleman and a general in the army of Alexander the Great .
Heracles of Macedon ( ca. 327 BC - 309 BC ) was a reputed illegitimate son of Alexander the Great of Macedon by Barsine , daughter of Satrap Artabazus of Phrygia .
In the third century BC , it was destroyed by Lysimachus—a Macedonian officer , one of the successors ( Diadochi ) of Alexander the Great , later a king ( 306 BCE ) in Thrace and Asia Minor , during the same era when he nearly destroyed ( and did depopulate by forced expulsion ) the neighboring Ionian League city of Lebedos .
Alexander the Great stopped here with his army after crossing the Khawak Pass north into the Kunduz River valley before his offensive against Bactria in 329 BC .
Antipater ( ; ca. 397 BC — 319 BC ) was a Macedonian general and a supporter of kings Philip II of Macedon and Alexander the Great .
The settlement was founded by Alexander the Great in 333 BC to supersede Myriandrus as the key to the Syrian Gates , about 23 miles south of the scene of his victory at the Battle of Issus .
But this second period of Persian rule proved to be nearly as short as the first , and the islands became part of the rapidly growing Macedonian Empire as Alexander the Great swept through and defeated the Persians in 332 BC , to the great relief of the islands ' inhabitants .
It was completely annihilated , however , by Alexander the Great under Philip II of Macedon in the Battle of Chaeronea in 338 BC .
Xerxes ' army crossed at this point on a bridge in 480 BC , and most of Alexander the Great 's forces went the other way here by boat in 334 BC .
When the king of Khwarezm offered friendship to Alexander the Great in 328 BC , Alexander 's Greek and Roman biographers imagined the nomad king of a desert waste , but 20th century Russian archeologists revealed the region as a stable and centralized kingdom , a land of agriculture to the east of the Aral Sea , surrounded by the nomads of Central Asia , protected by its army of mailed horsemen , in the most powerful kingdom northwest of the Amu Darya ( the Oxus River of antiquity ) .
Other historians say Swatis were brave Assakenois and a related section Aspasios as Yousafzais , who had fought great wars against Alexander the Great in 326-27 BC .
Some of the world 's most prominent Tumuli , the Macedonian tombs and a cist-grave at Vergina include the tomb of Philip II ( 359–336 BC ) , father of Alexander the Great ( 336–323 BC ) , as well as the tomb of Alexander IV ( 323–309 BC ) , son of Alexander the Great .
In 326 BC , the army of Alexander the Great approached the boundaries of Magadha .
In 332 BC Mazaces handed over the country to Alexander the Great without a fight .
The Classical period then began , and lasted until the conquests of Alexander the Great in about 330 BC , which began the Hellenistic period , extending until the Roman absorption of the Greek world in the 1st century BCE .
After Alexander the Great 's death in 323 BC , various Macedonian generals such as Neoptolemus tried to take control of the region , but ultimately failed and a native dynasty of Orontids flourished until Armenia was conquered by Antiochus III the Great .
Subsequent rulers of the area include Alexander the Great , who after defeating the Persians in 333 BC followed the Orontes south into Syria .
The first historically documented invasion of the region that is now called `` Afghanistan '' was made by Alexander the Great in 330 BC as part of his string of conquests .
According to the Greek historical texts which bring mention of the city of Sialkot dating back to before 327 BC when the city was known as Sagala , it represented the eastern-most outpost and expansion of the Hellenic Empire created by Alexander the Great which has been cross-correlated to ancient Greek maps of the era and several monuments found in the Sialkot District .
In the 320s BC , Alexander the Great captured the city and established a fortified colony named Alexandria of the Caucasus .
He assassinated Philip in 336 BC , possibly at the instigation of Philip 's wife Olympias , or even his son Alexander the Great .
After the death of Philip , Alexander the Great passed through the lands of the Odryssians in 335-334 BC , crossing the Haemus ranges and after three encounters ( Battle of Haemus , Battle at Lyginus river , Battle at Peuce Island ) defeated and drove the Triballians to the junction of the Lyginus at the Danube , 3,000 Triballi were killed , the rest fled .
Dinocrates of Rhodes ( also Deinocrates ; , fl. last quarter of the 4th century BC ) was a Greek architect and technical adviser for Alexander the Great .
From around 304 BC the area formed part of the Seleucid Empire , and from around 250 BC it was the centre of a Greco-Bactrian kingdom , ruled by the descendants of Greeks who had settled there following the conquest of Alexander the Great .
After the conquests of Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC the city 's population began to decrease as Greeks migrated to the Hellenistic empires in the East .
This system remained remarkably stable , and with a few brief interruptions remained in place for 170 years , until Alexander the Great conquered Athens in 338 BC .
The Seleucid era , called the `` Era of Contracts '' by Jews , formerly used in much of the Middle East from the 4th century BC to the 6th century AD , dates from the epoch 312 BC , August of that year being when Seleucus I Nicator captured Babylon and began his reign over the Asian portions of Alexander the Great 's empire .
From the 6th century BC onwards , several empires dominated the region , beginning with the Persian Empire of the Achaemenids , followed by the Macedonian Empire founded by Alexander the Great , and successor kingdoms such as Ptolemaic Egypt and the Seleucid state in Syria .
In 327 BC Alexander the Great conquered Gandhara and the Indian Satrapies of the Persian Empire .
Cyrene was conquered by Alexander the Great in 331 BC and fell to the portion of Ptolemy I in the division of Alexander 's Empire .
Alexander the Great 's campaign from 334 to 323 BC brought Syria under Hellenic influence .
Although its theatrical traditions seem to have lost their vitality , Greek theatre continued into the Hellenistic period ( the period following Alexander the Great 's conquests in the fourth century BC ) .
The Empire was founded in 322 BC by Chandragupta Maurya , who had overthrown the Nanda Dynasty and rapidly expanded his power westwards across central and western India taking advantage of the disruptions of local powers in the wake of the withdrawal westward by Alexander the Great 's Greek and Persian armies .
The traditional date for the end of the Ancient Greek period is the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC .
The Hellenistic period of Greek history begins with the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC and ends with the annexation of the Greek peninsula and islands by Rome in 146 BC .
In the context of Ancient Greek art , architecture , and culture , Hellenistic Greece corresponds to the period between the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC and the annexation of the classical Greek heartlands by Rome in 146 BC focuses on the history of 'Greece proper ' ( effectively the area of modern Greece ) during this period .
As a result , Old Smyrna was destroyed in 545 BC. Alexander the Great re-founded the city around 340 BC. Alexander had defeated the Persians in several battles and finally the Emperor Darius III himself at Issus in 333 BC .
Alexander the Great founded his first colony `` Alexandrupolis '' in 340 BC .
The Battle of Ipsus was fought between some of the Diadochi ( the successors of Alexander the Great ) in 301 BC near the village of that name in Phrygia .
When Alexander the Great died ( June 10 , 323 BC ) , he left behind a huge empire which was composed of many essentially independent territories .
Their first attested appearance is at the Siege of Tyre by Alexander the Great in 332 BC , and a few years later , they appear in the surviving naval lists of Athens .
Like the septireme , the deceres ( ) is attributed by Pliny to Alexander the Great , and they are present alongside `` nines '' in the fleet of Antigonus Monophthalmus in 315 BC .
It was easy to mount catapults on galleys ; Alexander the Great had used them to considerable effect when he besieged Tyre from the sea in 332 BC .
`` For other uses , see Craterus ( disambiguation ) '' Craterus ( Greek : `` Κρατερός '' , ca. 370 BC – 321 BC ) was a Macedonian general under Alexander the Great and one of the Diadochi .
He was born during or before Alexander the Great 's reign over Babylon ( 330-323 BC ) , with the earliest date suggested as 340 BC .
The Achaemenids in turn were defeated by Alexander the Great in 330 BC , but the Median satrap Atropates was allowed to remain in power .