coreference:1:-----------------------------
Fate of Achilles ' armor .
Achilles ' armor was the object of a feud between Odysseus and Telamonian Ajax ( Ajax the greater ) .
They competed for it by giving speeches on why they were the bravest after Achilles to their Trojan prisoners , who after considering both men came to a consensus in favor of Odysseus .
Furious , Ajax cursed Odysseus , which earned the ire of Athena .
Athena temporarily made Ajax so mad with grief and anguish that he began killing sheep , thinking they were his comrades .
After a while , when Athena lifted his madness and Ajax realized that he had actually been killing sheep , he was so embarrassed that he committed suicide .
Odysseus eventually gave the armor to Neoptolemus , the son of Achilles .
A relic claimed to be Achilles ' bronze-headed spear was for centuries preserved in the temple of Athena on the acropolis of Phaselis , Lycia , a port on the Pamphylian Gulf .
The city was visited in 333 BC by Alexander the Great , who envisioned himself as the new Achilles and carried the `` Iliad '' with him , but his court biographers do not mention the spear , which he would indeed have touched with excitement .
coreference:14:-----------------------------
The Turkish name `` Çanakkale Boğazı '' is derived from the major city adjoining the strait , Çanakkale ( which takes its name from its famous castles ; `` kale '' means `` castle '' ) .
The name `` Dardanelles '' derives from Dardania , an ancient land on the Asian shore of the strait which in turn takes its name from Dardanus , the mythical son of Zeus and Electra .
A suspension bridge project has been planned , Connecting Saricay & Kilitbahir .
History .
The strait has always played a strategic role in history .
Greek and Persian History .
The ancient city of Troy was located near the western entrance of the strait and the strait 's Asiatic shore was the focus of the Trojan War .
It was also the scene of the legendary Greek story of Hero and Leander .
The Persian army of Xerxes I and later the Greek army of Alexander the Great crossed the Dardanelles in opposite directions to invade each other 's lands , in 480 BC and 334 BC respectively .
coreference:16:-----------------------------
In a letter that Ahmed Jabari sent to Khaled Meshal he warned him that security situation Gaza is getting worse as it was reported by Arabic-language newspaper A-Sharq Al-Awsat .
Jabari wrote that Gaza is falling into anarchy Ancient history until the mid-16th century ( 15th century BC-1517 ) .
The first mention of the city of Gaza was when the people from Caphtor island ( known as the Greek island Crete of today ) slaughtered the native people named as Avvites and moved in , then later in the 15th century BC , where Joshua , leading the children of Israel captures Gaza , with other territory , establishing the nation in the Holy Land .
In the Old Testament , after Samson was delivered into bondage by Delilah , he died while toppling the Temple of the god Dagon there .
In the 13th century BC the area was taken over by the Philistines , whose coastal power base of Philistia approximated roughly to the modern Strip .
The name `` Palestine '' is derived from `` Philistia '' and `` Philistines '' , via the Greek and Latin languages .
The Gaza area changed hands many times over the next 2,000 years .
It fell , successively , to the Israelite King David ( in 1000 BC ) , to the Assyrians ( in 732 BC ) , Egyptians , Babylonians ( in 586 BC ) , Persians ( in 525 BC ) , and Greeks .
Alexander the Great met stiff resistance there ( in 332 BC ) .
coreference:20:-----------------------------
On December 27 , 2008 , following the collapse of an unofficial cease-fire between Israel and Gaza and resumption of shelling of southern Israeli towns from Gaza , Israeli forces mounted a three-week campaign in Gaza , leading to widespread international protests .
2009-present : Netanyahu II .
In the 2009 legislative election Likud won 27 seats and Kadima 28 ; however , the right-wing camp won a majority of seats , and President Shimon Peres called on Netanyahu to form the government .
Russian immigrant-dominated Yisrael Beiteinu came third with 15 seats , and Labour was reduced to fourth place with 13 seats .
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
History of Afghanistan .
The detailed history of Afghanistan begins around 330 BC with the arrival of Alexander the Great ( Sikandar ) and his Greek army although civilization had existed on the land for thousands of years .
coreference:22:-----------------------------
The name of the district and its main town is derived from that of the chief river of the region , the Hari River ( Old Iranian `` Harayu '' , `` Golden Water '' ) , which traverses the district and passes some south of modern Herāt .
Hari is mentioned in Sanscrit as yellow or golden color equivalent to Persian Zar meaning Gold ( yellow ) .
The naming of a region and its principal town after the main river is a common feature in this part of the world—compare the adjoining districts/rivers/towns of Arachosia and Bactria .
The district `` Aria '' of the Persian Achaemenid Empire is mentioned in the provincial lists that are included in various royal inscriptions , for instance , in the Behistun inscription of Darius I ( ca. 520 BC ) .
Representatives from the district are depicted in reliefs , e.g. , at the royal Achaemenid tombs of Naqsh-e Rustam and Persepolis .
Herodotus described Herāt as `` the bread-basket of Central Asia '' .
At the time of Alexander the Great , Aria was obviously an important district .
It was administered by a satrap called Satibarzanes , who was one of the three main Persian officials in the East of the Empire , together with the satrap Bessus of Bactria and Barsaentes of Arachosia .
In late 330 BC , Alexander the Great captured the Arian capital that was called Artacoana .
coreference:28:-----------------------------
An alternative etymology derives the name of the city from Gandhara , the name of an ancient Hindu kingdom from the Vedic period and its capital city located between the Hindukush and Sulaiman Mountains ( basically identical to the modern extend of the Pashtun-inhabited territories in Pakistan and Afghanistan ) , although Kandahar in modern times and the ancient Gandhara are not geographically identical .
It 's interesting to know that the word `` kand '' or `` qand '' in the local languages ( Persian and Pashto ) means `` sweet '' and `` har '' may be short for `` shahar '' which means city or town .
And the ancient word- Gandh derived from Gandhar also means a sweet nice smell .
This probably has to do with the city being known for producing fine grapes , pomegranates , apricots , melons and other sweet fruits .
Another etymology derives the name of the city as combination of two PIE words , even used in Indo-Pakistan now by nomadic Bagga and Sansi tribes , `` kand = wall '' and `` har = mountain or stone '' leading to understand a city made of stones or fortress with stone wall .
Prehistory .
Excavations of prehistoric sites by Louis Dupree , the University of Pennsylvania , the Smithsonian Institution , and others suggest that the region around Kandahar is one of the oldest human settlements known so far .
Hellenistic era .
Kandahar was founded in 330 BC by Alexander the Great , near the site of the ancient city of Mundigak ( established around 3000 BC ) .
coreference:31:-----------------------------

<sectionStart>
Mesopotamia .
Mesopotamia ( from Greek `` [ land ] between the rivers '' , rendered in Arabic as ' ) is a toponym for the area of the Tigris-Euphrates river system , along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers , largely corresponding to modern Iraq , as well as some parts of northeastern Syria , some parts of southeastern Turkey , and some parts of the Khūzestān Province of southwestern Iran .
Widely considered as the cradle of civilization , Bronze Age Mesopotamia included Sumer and the Akkadian , Babylonian and Assyrian empires .
In the Iron Age , it was ruled by the Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian empires .
The indigenous Sumerians and Akkadians ( including Assyrians & Babylonians ) dominated Mesopotamia from the dawn of written history circa 3100 BC to the fall of Babylon in 539 BC .
It was then conquered by the Achaemenid Empire .
It fell to Alexander the Great in 332 BC and after his death it became part of the Greek Seleucid Empire , by around 150 BC Mesopotamia was under the control of the Parthians .
coreference:39:-----------------------------
It also is notable for being the home of the renown ancient Greek mathematician Apollonius of Perga .
History .
In the twelfth century BC , there was a large wave of Greek migration from northern Anatolia to the Mediterranean coast .
Many settled in the area immediately east of the area of modern-day Antalya , which came to be known as Pamphylia , meaning `` land of all tribes '' .
Four great cities eventually rose to prominence in Pamphylia : Perga , Sillyon , Aspendos and Side .
Perga itself was founded in around 1000 BC and is nearly 20km inland .
It was sited inland as a defensive measure in order to avoid the pirate bands that terrorized this stretch of the Mediterranean .
In 546 BC , the Achaemenid Persians defeated the local powers and gained control of the region .
Two hundred years later , in 333 BC , the armies of Alexander the Great arrived in Perga during his war of conquest against the Persians .
coreference:40:-----------------------------
A year afterward , Phrynicus produced the tragedy `` The Capture of Miletus '' in Athens .
The Athenians fined him for reminding them of their loss .
Classical period .
Its gridlike layout , planned by Hippodamos , became the basic layout for Roman cities .
In 479 BC , the Greeks decisively defeated the Persians at the Greek mainland , and Miletus was freed of Persian rule .
During this time several other cities were formed by Milesian settlers , spanning across what is now Turkey and even as far as Crimea .
The eponymous founder of the bawdy Miletian school of literature Aristides of Miletus taught here .
Alexandrian period .
In 334 BC , the city was liberated from Persian rule by Alexander the Great .
coreference:63:-----------------------------
This region is listed after the first , Airyana Vaeja , Land of the Aryans , in the Zoroastrian book of `` Vendidad '' , hence one can see how notice of this region has been taken since ancient times .
Sogdiana , at different periods of time , included territories around Samarkand , Bukhara , Khujand and Kesh in modern Uzbekistan .
The inhabitants of Sogdiana were the `` Sogdians '' , an Eastern Iranian people .
The Sogdian states , although never politically united , were centred around their main city of Samarkand .
It lay north of Bactria , east of Khwarezm , and southeast of Kangju between the Oxus ( Amu Darya ) and the Jaxartes ( Syr Darya ) , embracing the fertile valley of the Zarafshan ( ancient `` Polytimetus '' ) .
Sogdian territory corresponds to the modern provinces of Samarkand and Bokhara in modern Uzbekistan as well as the Sughd province of modern Tajikistan .
Hellenistic period .
An independent and warlike Sogdiana formed a border region insulating the Achaemenid Persians from the nomadic Scythians to the north and east .
The Sogdian Rock or Rock of Ariamazes , a fortress in Sogdiana , was captured in 327 BC by the forces of Alexander the Great ; after an extended campaign putting down Sogdian resistance and founding military outposts manned by his Macedonian veterans , Alexander united Sogdiana with Bactria into one satrapy .
coreference:71:-----------------------------
It appears Egyptian contact peaked during the 19th dynasty , only to decline during the 20th and 21st dynasties .
Although the archaeological evidence seems to indicate a brief resurgence during the 22nd and 23rd dynasties , it is clear after the Third Intermediate Period the Egyptians started favoring Tyre and Sidon instead of Byblos .
Archaeological evidence at Byblos , dating back to around 1200 BC , shows existence of a Phoenician alphabetic script of twenty-two characters ; an important example of this script is the sarcophagus of king Ahiram .
The use of the alphabet was spread by Phoenician merchants through their maritime trade into parts of North Africa and Europe .
One of the most important monuments of this period is the temple of Resheph , a Canaanite war god , but this had fallen into ruins by the time of Alexander .
In the Assyrian period , Sibittibaal of Byblos became tributary to Tiglath-pileser III in 738 BC , and in 701 BC , when Sennacherib conquered all Phoenicia , the king of Byblos was Urumilki .
Byblos was also subject to Assyrian kings Esarhaddon ( r.681-669 BCE ) and Ashurbanipal ( r.668-627 BCE ) , under its own kings Milkiasaph and Yehawmelek .
In the Persian period ( 538-332 BC ) , Byblos was the fourth of four Phoenician vassal kingdoms established by the Persians ; the first three being Sidon , Tyre , and Arwad .
Hellenistic rule came with the arrival of Alexander the Great in the area in 332 BC .
coreference:75:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
History of elephants in Europe .
The history of elephants in Europe dates back to the ice ages , when mammoths ( various species of prehistoric elephant ) roamed the northern parts of the Earth , from Europe to North America ( mastodons only occurred in North America . )
There was also the dwarf elephant of Cyprus ( `` Palaeoloxodon cypriotes '' ) , Sicily-Malta ( `` Palaeoloxodon falconeri '' ) and mainland ( `` Palaeoloxodon antiquus '' ) .
However , these became extinct several thousand years ago , and subsequently the presence of elephants in Europe is only due to importation of these animals .
Overview .
Europeans first came in contact with elephants in 327 BC , when Alexander the Great descended into India from the Hindu Kush , but Alexander was quick to adopt them .
coreference:77:-----------------------------
It was the first of many successor Persian Empires to be accounted as such and to figure importantly in history—most often as a superpower .
It is also the state which freed the Israelites ( Jews ) from their Babylonian captivity .
Encompassing approximately 7.5 million square kilometers , the Achaemenid Empire was territorially the largest empire of classical antiquity .
At the height of its power , the Persian Empire spanned three continents , and eventually incorporated the following territories : In the east , modern Afghanistan and beyond into central Asia , and Pakistan .
In the north and west , all of Asia Minor ( modern Turkey ) , the upper Balkans peninsula ( Thrace ) , and most of the Black Sea coastal regions .
In the west and southwest the territories of modern Iraq , northern Saudi Arabia , Jordan , Israel , Lebanon , Syria , all significant population centers of ancient Egypt and as far west as portions of Libya .
The empire began as a vassal state of the Medes but ended up conquering and enlarging the Median empire to include Ancient Egypt and Asia Minor .
Under Xerxes I of Persia , it came very close to conquering Ancient Greece .
The Achaemenids were finally overthrown by the conquest of Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
coreference:79:-----------------------------
<sectionStart>
Umm Qasr .
Umm Qasr ( , also transliterated as : `` Um-qasir '' , `` Um-qasser '' ) , is a port city in southern Iraq .
It stands on the canalised Khawr az-Zubayr , part of the Khawr Abd Allah estuary which leads to the Persian Gulf .
It is separated from the border of Kuwait by a small inlet .
A bridge across the waterway linked the port with Kuwait prior to the 1991 Persian Gulf War .
Village to Port .
Umm Qasr was originally a small fishing town , but was used as a military port on several occasions before advancing trades and jobs by building a deep-water port on the coast .
It was said to have been the site of Alexander the Great 's landing in Mesopotamia in 325 BC .
coreference:80:-----------------------------
Before 1971 it was known as Hilla province .
The ancient city of Babylon in present-day Babil province was the capital of the Old Kingdom of Babylonia situated on the Euphrates River south of modern Baghdad , Iraq .
The city was occupied from the 3rd millennium BC but became important early in the 2nd millennium under the kings of the First Dynasty of Babylon .
The sixth king of this dynasty was Hammurabi ( 1792-1750 BC ) who made Babylon the capital of a vast empire and is best remembered for his code of laws .
This period was brought to an end by the Hittites when in 1595 BC Babylon is sacked by King Mursili I .
The city then had a mixed history until the Neo-Babylonian Period of the 7th-6th centuries BC .
It once again achieved pre-eminence when Nebuchadnezzar II ( 605-562 BC ) extended the Chaldean Empire over most of Western Asia .
Babylon fell to Cyrus the Great of Persia in 539 BC ; occupation continued in the Achaemenid Period .
The city was taken by Alexander the Great in 331 BC .
coreference:84:-----------------------------
It was established after the 1893 Durand Line Agreement between the Government of colonial British India and Afghan Amir Abdur Rahman Khan for fixing the limit of their respective spheres of influence .
It is named after Henry Mortimer Durand , the Foreign Secretary of British India at the time .
The single-page agreement which contains seven short articles was signed by H. M. Durand and Amir Abdur Rahman Khan , agreeing not to exercise interference beyond the frontier line between Afghanistan and what was then colonial British India ( now Pakistan ) .
A joint British-Afghan demarcation survey took place starting from 1894 , covering some 800 miles of the border .
The resulting Durand Line established the `` Great Game '' buffer zone between British and Russian interests in the region .
This poorly marked border cuts through the Pashtun tribal area and lies in one of the most dangerous places in the world .
Although shown on most maps as the western international border of Pakistan , it is unrecognized by Afghanistan .
History .
The area in which the border runs has been inhabited by ethnic Pashtun tribes since at least the time of Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
coreference:93:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Sestos .
Sestos ( ) was an ancient Greek town of the Thracian Chersonese , the modern Gallipoli peninsula in European Turkey .
Situated on the Hellespont opposite Abydos , it was the home of Hero in the legend of Hero and Leander .
Sestos was an Aeolian colony , as it was founded by settlers from Lesbos .
The ruins of the town are near to Eceabat .
Xerxes ' army crossed at this point on a bridge in 480 BC , and most of Alexander the Great 's forces went the other way here by boat in 334 BC .
coreference:97:-----------------------------
To launch his attack across the Ganga River ( Ganges ) , Ajatashatru built a fort at the town of Pataliputra .
Torn by disagreements the Licchavis with many tribes that fought with Ajatshatru .
It took fifteen years for Ajatshatru to defeat them .
Jain texts tell how Ajatashatru used two new weapons : a catapult , and a covered chariot with swinging mace that has been compared to a modern tank .
Pataliputra began to grow as a center of commerce and became the capitol of Magadha after Ajatashatru 's death .
The Haryanka dynasty was overthrown by the Shishunaga dynasty .
The last ruler of Shishunaga Dynsty , Kalasoka was assassinated by Mahapadma Nanda in 424 BC , the first of the so-called Nine Nandas ( Mahapadma and his eight sons ) .
The Nanda Dynasty ruled for about 100 years .
In 326 BC , the army of Alexander the Great approached the boundaries of Magadha .
coreference:101:-----------------------------
As a result both Turkish and Arabic are still widely spoken in Antakya although written Arabic is rarely used .
A mixed community of faiths and demoninations co-exist peacefully here ; although almost all the inhabitants are Muslim a substantial proportion adhere to the Alevi and the Arab Nusayri traditions , in 'Harbiye ' there is a place to honour the Nusayri saint Hızır .
There are a number of tombs of Muslim saints , both Sunni and Alevi , throughout the city .
There are also still small active Christian communities in the city , the largest church being St Peter and St Paul on Hurriyet Caddesi .
With its long history of spiritual and religious movements Antakya is still a place of pilgrimage for Christians and Muslims and furthermore still carries a reputation in Turkey as a centre of spells , fortune telling , miracles and spirits .
Local crafts include a soap scented with oil of bay tree .
Antiquity .
Antioch history dates back to the Calcolithic era ( 6th millennium BC ) , as revealed by excavations of the mound of Tell-Açana among others .
Subsequent rulers of the area include Alexander the Great , who after defeating the Persians in 333 BC followed the Orontes south into Syria .
coreference:113:-----------------------------
When the Achamenids took control of this kingdom , Pushkarasakti , a contemporary of king Bimbisara of Magadha , was the king of Gandhara .
He was engaged in a power struggle against the kingdoms of Avanti and Pandavas .
The inscription on Darius ' ( 521–486 BC ) tomb at Naqsh-i-Rustam near Persepolis records GADĀRA ( Gandāra ) along with HINDUSH ( Hənduš , Sindh ) in the list of satrapies .
Under the Persian rule , a system of centralized administration with a bureaucratic system was introduced in the region .
Great scholars such as Panini and Kautilya lived in this cosmopolitan environment .
The `` Kharosthi '' alphabet , derived from the one used for Aramaic ( the official language of Achaemenids ) developed here and remained national script of Gandhara until third century AD .
By about 380 BC Persian hold on the region weakened .
Many small kingdoms sprang up in Gandhara .
In 327 BC Alexander the Great conquered Gandhara and the Indian Satrapies of the Persian Empire .
coreference:114:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
List of Kings of Cyrene .
Cyrene or Cyrenaica was a Greek colony on the North African coast , in what is now northeastern Libya , founded by Dorian settlers from Thera ( modern Santorini ) in the 7th century BC .
Kings of Cyrene received a recurring posthumous hero cult like that of the Dorian kings of Sparta .
Kings of Cyrene , ( Battiad dynasty ) 632 BC - 440 BC .
In 440 BC , Cyrene became a Republic , under Persian suzerainty ( as had been the latter kings from Arcesilaus III ) .
Cyrene was conquered by Alexander the Great in 331 BC and fell to the portion of Ptolemy I in the division of Alexander 's Empire .
coreference:130:-----------------------------
The latter were to keep the name `` Turkmen '' or `` Turcoman '' for a long time : from 13th century onwards they gradually Turkified the Iranian-speaking populations of Azerbaijan , thus creating a new identity based on Shiism and the use of Oghuz Turkic .
However , it is notable that the Turkification of Azaris was completed only by the late 1800s , while the old Iranic speakers can still be found in tiny isolated recesses of the mountains or other remote areas ( such as Harzand , Galin Guya , Shahrud villages in Khalkhal and Anarjan ) .
Today , this Turkic-speaking population is also known as Azeris Ancient period .
Caucasian Albanians are believed to be the earliest inhabitants of the region where modern day Republic of Azerbaijan is located .
Early Iranian settlements included the Scythians in the ninth century BC .
Following the Scythians , the Medes came to dominate the area to the south of the Aras .
The Medes forged a vast empire between 900-700 BC , which was integrated into the Achaemenids Empire around 550 BC .
During this period , Zoroastrianism spread in the Caucasus and Atropatene .
The Achaemenids in turn were defeated by Alexander the Great in 330 BC , but the Median satrap Atropates was allowed to remain in power .
coreference:131:-----------------------------
Well , you know , think about it for a bit .
That 's an obvious reference to the later `` Batman '' movie with George Clooney with a nippled Batsuit . ''
According to Goode , he will be playing Veidt with a hint of a German accent in private and an American accent to the media .
Encouraged by Snyder to further interpret his role , Goode came up with his own backstory for Veidt 's true motivations for giving away his inherited wealth—his shame at his parents being Nazi sympathizers .
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Battle of the Hydaspes .
The Battle of the Hydaspes River was fought by Alexander the Great in 326 BC against the king Porus ( Pururava in Sanskrit ) on the banks of Hydaspes River ( the Jhelum ) in the Punjab region near Bhera now in Pakistan .
coreference:132:-----------------------------
The last two numbers are remarkably close , if it is assumed that Arrian added any prisoners to the total Indian casualties .
Historian Peter Green supports that Macedonian casualties might have mounted to 4.000 men , mainly phallangites , but his claims are not supported by the sources .
Aftermath .
The bravery , war skills and princely attitude of Porus much impressed Alexander , who allowed him to rule Hydaspes in Alexander 's name .
Wounded in his shoulder , standing at over 1.8 m ( 6 feet ) tall , he was asked by Alexander how he wished to be treated .
`` Treat me , O Alexander , like a king '' Porus responded .
Alexander would indeed treat him like a king , allowing him to retain his kingship .
The Macedonian regent founded two cities , one at the spot of the battle called Nicaea ( Greek for Victory ) in commemoration of his success and one on the other side of the Hydaspes called Alexandria Bucephalus , to honor his faithful steed , which died soon after this battle .
In 326 BC , the army of Alexander the Great approached the boundaries of the Magadha .
coreference:143:-----------------------------
The Greeks in India were eventually divided from the Graeco-Bactrian Kingdom centered in Bactria ( now the border between Afghanistan and Uzbekistan ) .
The expression `` Indo-Greek Kingdom '' loosely describes a number of various dynastic polities .
There were numerous cities , such as Taxila , Pakistan 's Punjab , or Pushkalavati and Sagala .
These cities would house a number of dynasties in their times , and based on Ptolemy 's `` Geographia '' and the nomenclature of later kings , a certain Theophila in the south was also probably a satrapal or royal seat at some point .
During the two centuries of their rule , the Indo-Greek kings combined the Greek and Indian languages and symbols , as seen on their coins , and blended ancient Greek , Hindu and Buddhist religious practices , as seen in the archaeological remains of their cities and in the indications of their support of Buddhism , pointing to a rich fusion of Indian and Hellenistic influences .
The diffusion of Indo-Greek culture had consequences which are still felt today , particularly through the influence of Greco-Buddhist art .
The Indo-Greeks ultimately disappeared as a political entity around 10 AD following the invasions of the Indo-Scythians , although pockets of Greek populations probably remained for several centuries longer under the subsequent rule of the Indo-Parthians and Kushans .
Preliminary Greek presence in South Asia .
In 326 BC , Alexander the Great conquered the northwestern part of the Indian subcontinent as far as the Hyphasis River , and established satrapies and founded several settlements , including Bucephala ; he turned south when his troops refused to go further east .
coreference:144:-----------------------------
Etymology .
Anamur has mutated from the Greek `` Anemourion '' ( `` Ανεμούριον '' ) meaning `` windy point '' .
History .
Founded by the Phoenicians , the city was then occupied by the Assyrians and Hittites .
During the Hittite period in the twelfth century B.C. , the ruler Tuthalia IV , granted Anemorium to Mattuvata who had taken refuge in his kingdom .
Mattuvata took advantage of the Hittites’ weakness , establishing his own kingdom with Anemorium as its capital .
His rule extended as far as Afyon , in central Anatolia.At the end of the 12th century the area was occupied by a nomadic tribe that had come from across the Caucasus mountains.The tribe was called by the ancient Greeks the `` Wind people '' ( Ανέμου γένος ) after whom the city was named.The exact reasons behind this name are lost in time.The most probable explanation however , is that they worshiped a god of wind , perhaps similar to the Greek Aeolus , as their main deity .
Then the city came under the control of the Phoenicions again , and later Persians .
In 333 BC Alexander the Great brought this coast within his Macedonian Empire , and he was succeeded by Seleucids and then Ancient Romans .
coreference:147:-----------------------------
Possessing a natural harbour , Patara was said to have been founded by Patarus , a son of Apollo .
It was situated at a distance of 60 stadia to the southeast of the mouth of the river Xanthos .
Patara was noted in antiquity for its temple and oracle of Apollo , second only to that of Delphi .
The god is often mentioned with the surname `` Patareus '' .
Herodotus says that the oracle of Apollo was delivered by a priestess only during a certain period of the year ; and from Servius we learn that this period was the six winter months .
It seems certain that Patara received Dorian settlers from Crete ; and the worship of Apollo was certainly Dorian .
Ancient writers mentioned Patara as one of the principal cities of Lycia .
It was Lycia 's primary seaport , and a leading city of the Lycian League , having 3 votes , the maximum .
The city , with the rest of Lycia , surrendered to Alexander the Great in 333 BC .
coreference:148:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Gedrosia .
Gedrosia ( ; ) is the ancient name of an area that corresponds to today 's Balochistan .
Eastern Balochistan is southwestern province of Pakistan and parts of southwestern and south-central Afghanistan and western Balochistan is divided between Iranian provinces of Hormozgan and Sistan va Baluchestan .
The area which is named Gedrosia , in books about Alexander the Great and his successors , runs from the Indus River to the southern edge of the Strait of Hormuz .
It is directly to the south of the ancient provinces of Arachosia and Drangiana , to the east of Carmania and due west of the Kingdoms of Ancient India .
In 325 BC , Alexander the Great crossed the area on his way back to Babylon after campaigning in the east .
coreference:153:-----------------------------
Another legend states that the winged horse Pegasus was lost and landed here , hurting his foot , and thus the city was named `` tar-sos '' ( `` the sole of the foot '' ) .
Other candidates for legendary founder of the city include the hero Perseus and Triptolemus son of the earth-goddess Demeter , doubtless because the countryside around Tarsus is excellent farmland .
Later the coinage of Tarsus bore the image of Hercules , due to yet another tale in which the hero was held prisoner here by the local god Sandon .
Tarsus has been suggested as a possible identification of the biblical Tarshish , where the prophet Jonah wanted to flee , but Tartessos in Spain is a more likely identification for this .
( See further ) Early antiquity , Greece and Persia .
In historical times , the city was first ruled by the Hittites , followed by Assyria , and then the Persian Empire .
Tarsus was the seat of a Persian satrapy from 400 BC onward .
Indeed , Xenophon records that in 401 BC , when Cyrus the Younger marched against Babylon , the city was governed by King Syennesis in the name of the Persian monarch .
Alexander the Great passed through with his armies in 333 BC and nearly met his death here after a bath in the Cydnus .
coreference:155:-----------------------------
The population of the city is 83 832 as of 2009 .
It is the ancient Assyrian city , which Alexander 's successors refounded as Antiochia Mygdonia ( ) and is mentioned for the first time in Polybius ' description of the march of Antiochus I against the Molon ( Polybius , V , 51 ) .
Greek historian Plutarch suggested that the city was populated by Spartan descendants .
The Assyrian name for the town is `` Soba '' .
The Armenian name is `` Mtsbin '' , and the Hebrew name is `` Netzivin '' .
Ancient Period .
As early as 852 BC , Nisibis was part of the Neo Assyrian Empire , and appeared in the Assyrian Eponym List as the seat of an Assyrian provincial governor named Shamash-Abua .
It remained part of the Assyrian Empire until its collapse in 608 BC .
It was under Babylonian control until 536 BC , when it fell to the Achamaenid Persians , and remained so until taken by Alexander the Great in 332 BC .
coreference:159:-----------------------------
The current Rasayan formulas are based on such ingredients as amla ( Emblica officinalis which has very high stable Vitamin C ) , Terminalia belerica , Terminalia chebula , Shilajit ( a mineral exudate high in fulvic acid ) , Long pepper , Black pepper , Ginger , processed Guggul , Guduchi , Ashwaganda , Shatavari and similar ingredients .
Rasayan has meanings beyond healthful substances .
Rasayan Shastr in Ancient India was much less developed than today .
Nevertheless , the use and practice of Rasayan was widespread in Ancient India , and some examples of applied rasayan include paints used in the caves of Ajanta and Ellora , Maharashtra state , the steel of `` Vishnustambha '' ( literal meaning : the tower of Vishnu ) , and a processed wood sample in the Kondivade caves near the Rajmachi fort in Maharashtra .
History .
The oldest Indian writings , the Vedas ( Hindu sacred scriptures ) , contain the same hints of alchemy that are found in evidence from ancient China , namely vague references to a connection between gold and long life .
Mercury , which was so vital to alchemy everywhere , is first mentioned in the 4th- to 3rd-century-BC Artha-śāstra , about the same time it is encountered in China and in the West .
Evidence of the idea of transmuting base metals to gold appears in 2nd- to 5th-century-AD Buddhist texts , about the same time as in the West .
Since Alexander the Great had invaded India in 325 BC , leaving a Greek state ( Gandhāra ) that long endured , the possibility exists that the Indians acquired the idea from the Greeks , but it could have been the other way around .
coreference:159:-----------------------------
The practice was done mainly with herbs , drugs , and prepared medicines .
This approach was different from the traditions of alchemy found in medieval Europe .
Sulphides of Mercury are traditionally used in Rasavātam and Ayurveda to cure disease and prolong life .
One such preparation is named thanga baspam and claimed to extend human life span .
History .
The oldest Indian writings , the Vedas ( Hindu sacred scriptures ) , contain the same hints of alchemy that are found in evidence from ancient China , namely vague references to a connection between gold and long life .
Mercury , which was so vital to alchemy everywhere , is first mentioned in the 4th- to 3rd-century-BC Artha-śāstra , about the same time it is encountered in China and in the West .
Evidence of the idea of transmuting base metals to gold appears in 2nd- to 5th-century-AD Buddhist texts , about the same time as in the West .
Since Alexander the Great had invaded India in 325 BC , leaving a Greek state ( Gandhāra ) that long endured , the possibility exists that the Indians acquired the idea from the Greeks , but it could have been the other way around .
coreference:165:-----------------------------
It is today one of the texts of reference of Theravada Buddhism .
According to the Milinda Panha ( I 32-35 ) , the monk Nagasena , before his encounter with Menander , was once a student of Dharmaraksita and learnt Buddhism and reached enlightenment as an arhat under his guidance in Pataliputra .
This event took place roughly a hundred years after the missionary efforts of Ashoka , and it would suggest that Dharmaraksita was a young man under Ashoka , became a respected elder settled in the Ashokan capital of Pataliputra , and then trained a young Nagasena in the Tripitaka and towards enlightenment , before Nagasena himself met Menander at a venerable age .
The Milinda Panha therefore seems to relate the dialogue between a great Greek king , Menander , with a monk trained in Buddhism by the great Greek Buddhist elder Dharmaraksita , tending to suggest the importance of Greeks during the first formative centuries of Buddhism .
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Memnon of Rhodes .
Memnon of Rhodes ( 380 – 333 BC ) was the commander of the Greek mercenaries working for the Persian king Darius III when Alexander the Great of Macedonia invaded Persia in 334 BC .
coreference:172:-----------------------------
The river Jhelum is called `` Vitastā '' in the Rigveda and `` Hydaspes '' by the ancient Greeks .
The Vitasta ( , fem. , also , `` Vetastā '' ) is mentioned as one of the major rivers by the holy scriptures of the Indo-Aryans — the Rigveda .
It has been speculated that the Vitastā must have been one of the seven rivers ( `` sapta-sindhu '' ) mentioned so many times in the Rigveda .
The name survives in the Kashmiri name for this river as `` Vyeth '' .
According to the major religious work Srimad Bhagavatam , the Vitastā is one of the many transcendental rivers flowing through the land of Bharata , or ancient India .
The river was regarded as a god by the ancient Greeks , as were most mountains and streams ; the poet Nonnus in the `` Dionysiaca '' ( section 26 , line 350 ) makes the `` Hydaspes '' a titan-descended god , the son of the sea-god Thaumas and the cloud-goddess Elektra .
He was the brother of Iris , the goddess of the rainbow , and half-brother to the Harpies , the `` snatching '' winds .
Since the river is in a country foreign to the ancient Greeks , it is not clear whether they named the river after the god , or whether the god `` Hydaspes '' was named after the river .
Alexander the Great and his army crossed the Jhelum in BC 326 at the Battle of the Hydaspes River where he defeated the Indian king , Porus .
coreference:193:-----------------------------
Greek Cypriots are mostly members of the Church of Cyprus , an autocephalous Greek Orthodox Church within the wider communion of Orthodox Christianity .
In regards to the 1960 Constitution of Cyprus , the term also includes Arabic-speaking Maronites , Armenians and Latin Rite Catholics ( `` Latins '' ) , who were given the option of being included in one or other of the two constituent communities ( Greek or Turkish ) and voted to join the Greek Cypriot community .
History .
The Greek Cypriots trace their origins to the descendants of the the Mycenaean Greeks who settled on the island during the second half of the second millennium BC .
Following Sicily and Sardinia , Cyprus is the third largest island in the eastern Mediterranean .
Its landscape is flat with little forest area .
Mount Olympus , ( also known as Chionistra ) the highest point of the Troodos Mountains ( 1952 m ) , is the highest point on the island .
The island gradually became part of the Hellenic world as the settlers prospered over the next centuries .
Alexander the Great liberated the island from the Persians in 333 BC .
coreference:200:-----------------------------
Ghulam Mohammad Ghubar , a historian from Afghanistan , talks of `` Proper Khorasan '' and `` Improper Khorasan '' in his book titled `` Khorasan '' .
According to him , Proper Khorasan contained regions lying between Balkh ( in the East ) , Merv ( in the North ) , Sijistan ( in the South ) , Nishapur ( in the West ) and Herat , known as `` The Pearl of Khorasan '' , in the center .
While Improper Khorasan 's boundaries extended to Kabul and Ghazni in the East , Sistan and Zabulistan in the South , Transoxiana and Khwarezm in the North and Damaghan and Gurgan in the West .
In Memoirs of Babur , it is mentioned that Indians called non-Hindustanis ( non-Indians ) as Khorasanis .
Regarding the boundary of Hindustan and Khorasan , it is written : `` On the road between Hindustān and Khorasān , there are two great marts : the one Kābul , the other Kandahār . ''
Thus , Improper Khorasan bordered Hindustan ( old India ) .
Historical overview .
Greater Khorasan is one of the regions of Greater Iran .
Before being conquered by Alexander the Great in 330 BC , it was part of the Achaemenid and Median Persian Empire .
coreference:205:-----------------------------
Vishnu agreed to take the form of a turtle on whose shell a huge mountain was placed .
With the help of a mighty and long serpent the churning process began at the surface of the ocean .
The gods pulled the serpent from one side which had coiled itself around the mountain and the demons pulled it from the other side. ( the churning process required immense strength and hence the demons were persuaded to do the job- they agreed but in return for a portion of Amrit ) .
Finally with the combined effort of the gods and demons , Amrit emerged from the depths of the ocean .
All the gods were offered the drink but the gods managed to trick the demons who did not get the holy drink .
The oldest Indian writings , the Vedas ( Hindu sacred scriptures ) , contain the same hints of alchemy that are found in evidence from ancient China , namely vague references to a connection between gold and long life .
Mercury , which was so vital to alchemy everywhere , is first mentioned in the 4th to 3rd century BC Arthashastra , about the same time it is encountered in China and in the West .
Evidence of the idea of transmuting base metals to gold appears in 2nd to 5th century AD Buddhist texts , about the same time as in the West .
Since Alexander the Great had invaded India in 325 BC , leaving a Greek state ( Gandhara ) that long endured , the possibility exists that the Indians acquired the idea from the Greeks , but it could have been the other way around .
coreference:207:-----------------------------

<sectionStart>
Buddhism in the United States .
Buddhism is a prominent religion and cultural concept in the United States accounting for 0.7 % of the US population , making it the fourth largest belief-set behind Christianity , Judaism and Nonreligious , according to a 2007 Pew Research Center survey .
Many American Buddhists are Asian Americans as well as a large number of converts..
The U.S. presents a strikingly new and different environment for Buddhists , leading to a unique history and a continuing process of development as Buddhism and America become increasingly compatible .
Buddhism and the West .
Occasional intersections between Western civilization and the Buddhist world have been occurring for thousands of years .
Perhaps the most significant of these began in 334 BC , early in the history of Buddhism , when the Macedonian king Alexander the Great conquered most of Central Asia .
coreference:216:-----------------------------
Shahrisabz .
Shahrisabz or Shahr-e Sabz ( Persian : شهر سبز , Uzbek Shahrisabz , Шахрисабз ) , is a city in Uzbekistan located approximately 80 km south of Samarkand with the population of 53,000 ( 1991 ) .
It is located at the altitude of 622 m .
Once a major city of Central Asia , it is primarily known today as the birthplace of 14th century Turco-Mongol conqueror Timur .
Its name ( شهر سبز ) means `` green city '' in Persian .
History .
Formerly known as Kesh ( i.e. , `` heart-pleasing '' ) and tentatively identified with the ancient Nautaca Shahrisabz should be counted among Central Asia’s most ancient cities .
Alexander the Great 's general Ptolemy captured the satrap of Bactria and pretender to the Persian throne , Bessus , at Nautaca thus ending the once great Achaemenid Empire .
Alexander the Great chose to spend his winters and met his wife Roxanna in the area in 328-327 BC .
coreference:219:-----------------------------
Mardan ( Pashto مردان ) ( The city of Hospitality ) is a city and headquarters of Mardan District in the North-West Frontier Province Pukhtunkhwa of Pakistan , the second city of NWFP .
It is located at 34°12'0N 72°1'60E with an altitude of 283 metres ( 931 feet ) lying the south-west of the district .
It was part of the ancient Gandhara Civilization .
Most of its land is agricultural .
It has one of the world 's best irrigation systems , which was laid down by the British government during British Rule of the subcontinent ( 1857-1947 ) .
There are still remains of the Gandhara Civilization , scattered in different areas of Mardan .
History .
The area constituting Mardan district is a part of the Peshawar valley , which first appears in history as part of the Gandhara kingdom .
The armies of Alexander The Great reached the Indus Valley by two separate routes , one through the Khyber Pass and the other personally led by Alexander through Kunar , Bajaur , Swat , and Buner in 326 BC .
coreference:220:-----------------------------
About the year 1200 or later , it was sacked by invaders from Asia Minor or the islands , as were most of the cities on the coast ( Paton , `` Syria and Palestine '' , 145 ) but it recovered when they were driven back .
Its maritime importance is indicated by the inscriptions of the Assyrian kings .
Tiglath-pileser I ( circa 1020 ) boasts that he sailed in the ships of Arvad .
Ashurnasirpal II ( circa 876 ) made it tributary , but it revolted , and we find 200 men of Arvad mentioned among the allies of Hadadezer of Aram Damascus at the Battle of Qarqar , when all Syria seems to have been in league against Shalmaneser II ( circa 854 ) .
At this time the king of Arvad was Mattan Baal .
It was afterward tributary to Tiglath-pileser III and Sennacherib , the king who paid it to the latter being Abd-ilihit ( circa 701 ) .
Ashurbanipal ( circa 664 ) compelled its king Yakinlu to submit and send one of his daughters to become a member of the royal harem ( Rawlinson , `` Phoenicia '' , 456-57 ) .
Under the Persians Arvad was allowed to unite in a confederation with Sidon and Tyre , with a common council at Tripolis ( `` ibid '' , 484 ) .
When Alexander the Great invaded Syria in 332 BC Arvad submitted without a struggle under her king Strato , who sent his navy to aid Alexander in the reduction of Tyre .
coreference:222:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Armenians in India .
The association of Armenians with India and the presence of Armenians in India are very old , and there has been a mutual economic and cultural association of Armenians with India for the last several centuries .
Their presence has enriched India in several ways .
Antiquity .
It is believed that the Armenians might have first come to India around 2000 BC , along with Semiramis , the warrior queen of Assyria who had invaded India , as faithful allies .
Several centuries later , in 327 BC , Armenians are believed to have come to India , when some Armenians joined the auxiliary elements of the forces under the command of Alexander the Great when he crossed Armenia en route to India .
coreference:224:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Ada of Caria .
Ada of Caria ( Ἄδα in Greek ) ( fl. 377 – 326 BC ) was satrap of Caria in the 4th century BC .
Ada was the daughter of Hecatomnus , satrap of Caria , and sister of Mausolus , Artemisia , Idrieus , and Pixodarus .
She was married to her brother Idrieus , who succeeded Artemisia in 351 BC and died in 344 BC .
On the death of her husband Ada became satrap of Caria , but was expelled by her brother Pixodarus in 340 BC ; and on the death of the latter in 335 BC his son-in-law Orontobates received the satrapy of Caria from the Persian Great King .
When Alexander the Great entered Caria in 334 BC , Ada , who was in possession of the fortress of Alinda , surrendered the fortress to him .
coreference:234:-----------------------------
And it is the biggest city between Lahore and Multan .
The population is 207,388 ( 1998 Pakistan Census ) .
Sahiwal District is included in the former Multan Division and lies between 30-39 north latitude and 73-06 longitude .
The city lies in the densely populated region between the Sutlej and Ravi rivers .
Irrigation in the region is provided by the Bari Doab Canal system .
The principal crops are wheat , cotton , tobacco , legumes , and oilseeds .
Cotton goods and lacquered woodwork are manufactured .
About 18 miles Southwest of Sahiwal is Harappa , an ancient city of the world , oldest urban center of Harappan or Indus civilization in South Asia .
About 28 miles ( 45 km ) west of Sahiwal , at Kamalia , is the site of a Malli city captured by Alexander the Great in 325 bc .
coreference:238:-----------------------------
The current Rasayan formulas are based on such ingredients as amla ( Emblica officinalis which has very high stable Vitamin C ) , Terminalia belerica , Terminalia chebula , Shilajit ( a mineral exudate high in fulvic acid ) , Long pepper , Black pepper , Ginger , processed Guggul , Guduchi , Ashwaganda , Shatavari and similar ingredients .
Rasayan has meanings beyond healthful substances .
Rasayan Shastr in Ancient India was much less developed than today .
Nevertheless , the use and practice of Rasayan was widespread in Ancient India , and some examples of applied rasayan include paints used in the caves of Ajanta and Ellora , Maharashtra state , the steel of `` Vishnustambha '' ( literal meaning : the tower of Vishnu ) , and a processed wood sample in the Kondivade caves near the Rajmachi fort in Maharashtra .
History .
The oldest Indian writings , the Vedas ( Hindu sacred scriptures ) , contain the same hints of alchemy that are found in evidence from ancient China , namely vague references to a connection between gold and long life .
Mercury , which was so vital to alchemy everywhere , is first mentioned in the 4th- to 3rd-century-BC Artha-śāstra , about the same time it is encountered in China and in the West .
Evidence of the idea of transmuting base metals to gold appears in 2nd- to 5th-century-AD Buddhist texts , about the same time as in the West .
Since Alexander the Great had invaded India in 325 BC , leaving a Greek state ( Gandhāra ) that long endured , the possibility exists that the Indians acquired the idea from the Greeks , but it could have been the other way around .
coreference:238:-----------------------------
The practice was done mainly with herbs , drugs , and prepared medicines .
This approach was different from the traditions of alchemy found in medieval Europe .
Sulphides of Mercury are traditionally used in Rasavātam and Ayurveda to cure disease and prolong life .
One such preparation is named thanga baspam and claimed to extend human life span .
History .
The oldest Indian writings , the Vedas ( Hindu sacred scriptures ) , contain the same hints of alchemy that are found in evidence from ancient China , namely vague references to a connection between gold and long life .
Mercury , which was so vital to alchemy everywhere , is first mentioned in the 4th- to 3rd-century-BC Artha-śāstra , about the same time it is encountered in China and in the West .
Evidence of the idea of transmuting base metals to gold appears in 2nd- to 5th-century-AD Buddhist texts , about the same time as in the West .
Since Alexander the Great had invaded India in 325 BC , leaving a Greek state ( Gandhāra ) that long endured , the possibility exists that the Indians acquired the idea from the Greeks , but it could have been the other way around .
coreference:239:-----------------------------
Such words were taken from the Old Persian `` Pārsa '' - the name of the people whom Cyrus the Great of the Achaemenid dynasty first ruled ( before he inherited or conquered other Persian Kingdoms ) and of whom he was one .
This tribe gave its name to the region where they lived ( the modern day province is called Pars ) but the province in ancient times was larger than its current area .
In Latin , the name for the whole empire was `` Persia '' .
In the later parts of the Bible , where this kingdom is frequently mentioned ( Books of Esther , Daniel , Ezra and Nehemiah ) , it is called `` Paras '' ( Hebrew פרס ) , or sometimes `` Paras u Madai '' ( פרס ומדי ) i.e. `` Persia and Media '' .
The two names in the West .
The name `` Persia '' was the official name of Iran in the Western world before 1935 , but the Iranian people inside their country since the time of Zoroaster ( probably circa 1000 BC ) , or even before , have called their country `` Aryānām '' ( the equivalent of `` Iran '' in the proto-Iranian language ) or its equivalents .
It is not exactly clear what the Iranian people called their country during the Median ( 728 BC-559 BC ) , Achaemenid ( 550 BC–330 BC ) or Parthian ( 250 BC– 226 CE ) empires , but evidently from the time of the Sassanids ( 226–651 CE ) they have called it `` Iran '' , meaning `` the land of Aryans '' .
In Middle Persian sources , the name `` Iran '' is used for the pre-Sassanid Iranian empires as well as the Sassanid empire .
As an example , the use of the name `` Iran '' for Achaemenids in the Middle Persian book of Arda Viraf refers to the invasion of Iran by Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
coreference:243:-----------------------------
Its was most likely the main hall of the kings the columns reached 20m high and had complex capitals in the shape of bulls of lions .
Here , the great king received the tribute from all the nations in the Achaemenid Empire , and gave presents in return .
Access to the hall is given by two monumental stairways , on the north and on the east .
These are decorated by reliefs , showing delegates of the 23 subject nations of the Persian Empire paying tribute to Darius I , who is represented seated centrally .
The various delegates are shown in great detail , giving insight into the costume and equipment of the various peoples of Persia in the 5th century BC .
There are inscriptions in Old Persian and Elamite .
Measurements .
The Apadana at Persepolis is 100 metres square , its roof was supported by 72 columns , each 24 metres tall .
The entire hall was destroyed in 331 BC by the army of Alexander the Great .
coreference:275:-----------------------------
In 328 BC he fell in battle against the Bactrian fugitives .
Note .
Arrian , `` Anabasis Alexandri '' , , ; Diodorus Siculus , `` Bibliotheca '' , ; Curtius Rufus , `` Historiae Alexandri Magni '' , ,
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Satibarzanes .
Satibarzanes ( in Greek Σατιβαρζανης ; died 330 BC ) , a Persian , was satrap of Aria under Darius III , king of Persia .
330 BC , Alexander the Great , marching through the borders of Aria on his way from Hyrcania against the Parthians , was met at a city named Susia by Satibarzanes , who made submission to him , and was rewarded for it by the restoration of his satrapy .
coreference:302:-----------------------------
At other times it was also called `` Seleucia ad Maeandrum '' and `` Erynina '' .
In Roman and Byzantine times , it was known as Tralles ( in Latin ) or Tralleis ( Τραλλεῖς in Ancient Greek ) , and was one of the largest Aegean cities in antiquity .
After the first capture of the city by the Turks under the emirate ( Beylik ) of Menteşe , whose lands extended towards the south , who named it for a first period as `` Güzelhisar '' , literally `` the beautiful castle '' ( sometimes rendered as `` Guzel Hissar '' ) .
The city was later taken over by Turks of Aydınoğlu , whose lands extended towards the north , who named it after their dynasty , Aydınoğlu .
`` Aydın '' meant `` lucid , enlightened '' in Turkish and in a distinct evolution of the term , came to mean `` lettered , educated , intellectual '' in modern Turkish .
Antiquity .
According to Strabo Tralles was founded by the Argives and Trallians , a Thracian tribe .
Along with the rest of Lydia , the city fell to the Persian Empire .
After its success against Athens in the Peloponnesian War , Sparta unsuccessfully sought to take the city from the Persians , but in 334 BC , Tralles surrendered to Alexander the Great without resistance and therefore was not sacked .
coreference:312:-----------------------------
The town houses a modern fish harbour and Port of Pasni , with fishing being the main occupation of the town dwellers .
Frozen catch is also sent to Turbat and Karachi for sale in the larger markets .
A joint-user airfield is shared by Pakistan Air Force ( PAF ) , Pakistan Navy and civil aviation .
PAF as well as PN-Aviation operational facilities are housed nearby .
Daily commercial flights link the town with Karachi .
In 2008 , the government approved the construction of Shadi Kaur storage dam near Pasni , which is expected to alleviate some of the power deficiency of the region .
History .
Other than being a small fishing village , the town does not figure much in history .
Alexander the Great is said to have stopped at Pasni ( called 'Cysa ' in Arrian 's treatise `` Indica '' ) while unsuccessfully trying to rendezvous with his admiral , Nearchus , during a disastrous exodus via Makran after the Indian Campaign ( 325 BC ) .
coreference:313:-----------------------------
`` For the kingdom , please see Kingdom of Sophene . ''
Sophene ( , ) was a province of the Armenian Kingdom and of the Roman Empire , located in the south-west of the kingdom .
It currently lies in modern-day southeastern Turkey .
The region that was to become Sophene was part of the kingdom of Urartu in the 8th-7th centuries BC .
After unifying the region with his kingdom in the early 700s BC , king Argishtis I of Urartu resettled many of its inhabitants to his newly built city of Erebuni ( modern day Armenian capital Yerevan ) .
Around 600 BC , Sophene became part of the newly emerged ancient Armenian Kingdom of the Orontids .
According to Anania Shirakatsi 's `` Ashkharatsuyts '' ( `` World Atlas , '' 7th century ) , Tsopk ( Sophene ) was the 2nd among the 15 provinces of Greater Armenia .
It consisted of 8 cantons ( `` gavars '' ) : Khordzyan , Hashtyank , Paghnatun , Balahovit , Tsopk ( Shahunyats ) , Andzit , Degiq , and Gavreq ( Goreq ) .
After Alexander the Great 's campaigns in 330s BC and the subsequent collapse of the Achaemenid Empire , Sophene remained part of the newly independent kingdom of Greater Armenia .
coreference:317:-----------------------------
Dörtyol is a port and oil terminus at the head of the Gulf of İskenderun , near the easternmost point of the Mediterranean coast .
Dörtyol is located 26 km north of the city of Iskenderun in the province of Hatay in southeastern Turkey .
Geography .
The name Dörtyol means `` crossroads '' ( literally `` four roads '' ) in Turkish , and indeed the town sits on a crossing of highways , especially the O-53 from Anatolia south into Hatay and on to Syria .
The road is channelled along the narrow coastal strip with the Nur Mountains ( the ancient Amanos behind .
Dörtyol is at the edge of the Çukurova Plain and being near the coast , is humid and the countryside is fairly green and fertile .
Therefore as well as oil-handling , the economic activities of the district include forestry , cotton , and the cultivation of citrus fruits , especially a local variety of tangerine .
History .
This crossroads has seen the passage of numerous armies and some of the biggest military campaigns in history , including the battle between Alexander the Great and Darius in 333 BC .
coreference:318:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Alinda .
Alinda ( Ἄλινδα ) was an ancient inland city of Caria in Anatolia .
It is situated on a hilltop which commands the modern-day town of Karpuzlu , Aydın Province , in western Turkey , and overlooks a fertile plain .
Alinda could have been an important city since the second millennium BC and has been associated with Ialanti that appears in Hittite sources ( J. Garstang , p. 179 ) .
It was this fortress which was held by the exiled Carian Queen Ada .
She greeted Alexander the Great here in 334 BC .
coreference:319:-----------------------------
Its ruins were identified by Sir Charles Fellows , near the modern village of Minare ( Minara ) .
From amidst the ancient city , he says , rises a singular round rocky cliff ( the `` pinara '' of the Lycians ) , literally speckled all over with tombs .
Beneath this cliff lie the ruins of the extensive and splendid city .
The theater is in a very perfect state ; all the seats are remaining , with the slanting sides towards the proscenium , as well as several of its doorways .
The walls and several of the buildings are of the Cyclopean masonry , with massive gateways formed of three immense stones .
The tombs are innumerable , and the inscriptions are in the Lycian characters , but Greek also occurs often on the same tombs .
Some of these rock-tombs are adorned with fine and rich sculptures .
Pinara was a member of the Lycian League , in which it held three votes .
Pinara surrendered to Alexander the Great in 334 BC .
coreference:321:-----------------------------
The Jhangar valley , Bisharat is situated on the road coming from Choa Saidan Shah facing West to East about 8 km in length between the villages of Kotli and Ara at above sea level .
The weather during the summer is very pleasant and the hills are full of green bushes and olive trees .
An interesting place of this valley is the Picnic Point of Chehl Abdal” hill top which is at above sea level .
On the top of this hill is a shrine called Chehl-Abdal .
Many people from local villages and from all parts of the country often visit the shrine and offer sacrifices .
From the Chehl Abdal hill top one can see the great Punjab plains .
To the north are the Margla hills and to the south one can see the Jhelum River .
On the East & West side one can see the beautiful greenery of adjoining hills with rain forests consisting of thick jungle trees and bushes .
Alexander the Great passed through this area ( old Nandana Fort ) near Ara on his way to fight Raja Porus on the banks of the Jhelum River in 326 BC .
coreference:323:-----------------------------
The Kharral are reputed to be a very brave caste.And one of the most personality at Distric Rahim yar Khan ( Feroza ) Mian Imran Haider Kharal Advocate .
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Phalia .
Phalia is a city in Mandi Bahauddin District , Punjab , Pakistan .
The population of Phalia was calculated to be 25,914 in 2007 ( 21,025 in 1998 ) .
History .
Alexander the Great and his army crossed the Jhelum in 326 BC at the Battle of the Hydaspes River where he defeated the Indian king , Porus .
coreference:329:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Drangiana .
Drangiana ( , from Old Persian : `` Zranka `` waterland '' ) was a historical region of the Achaemenid Empire , now part of Afghanistan , Pakistan and Eastern Iran .
The land was inhabited by a Iranian tribe which the Greeks referred to as Sarangians or Drangians .
The Drangians were first subdued by another Iranian people , the Medes , and later , by Cyrus the Great .
According to Herodotus , during the reign of Darius I , the Drangians were placed in the same district as the Utians , Thamanaeans , Mycians , Drangians , and those deported to the Persian Gulf .
In 330 BC , the region was conquered by Alexander the Great .
coreference:334:-----------------------------
<sectionStart>
Taşova .
Taşova is a town and a district of Amasya Province of the central Black Sea region of Turkey .
It covers an area of 1041 km² , and the population ( 2000 ) is 57,050 of which 15,556 live in the town of Taşova , the majority spread throughout the surrounding countryside .
Altitude is 230 m. Taşova stands on a green and fertile plain , on the banks of the River Yeşilırmak .
History .
The first of many cultures and civilisations to settle on the plain were the Hittites who by 1650 BC were spread throughout Anatolia .
Then came the Phrygians ( 1200 - 700 BC ) , Cimmerians , Medes and Persians .
The Ancient Macedonians of Alexander the Great came to Anatolia in 331 BC and upon their dispersal rule of the Amasya region including Taşova passed to the Kings of Pontus ( in 291 BC ) , who remained in control until the arrival of the Romans .
coreference:344:-----------------------------
It lies 30 kilometres to the north-west of Antalya .
It was founded on a natural platform on top of Güllük Dağı , soaring to a height of 1.665 metres from among the surrounding travertine mountains of Antalya , which average only 200 metres above sea level .
Termesos is one of the best preserved of the ancient cities of Turkey .
Termessos constitutes an unusual synthesis of a large number of rare plants and animal species , which are under protection in the Termessos National Park .
Concealed by a multitude of wild plants and bounded by dense pine forests , the site , with its peaceful and untouched appearance , has a more distinct and impressive atmosphere than other ancient cities .
Because of its natural and historical riches , the city has been included in a National Park bearing its name .
History .
The mythical founder of the city is Bellerophon .
What is known of the history commences principally at the time that Alexander the Great surrounded the city in 333 BC , which he likened to an eagle 's nest and failed to conquer .
coreference:347:-----------------------------
<sectionStart>
Selge , Pisidia .
Selge ( in Greek Σελγη ) was an important city in Pisidia , on the southern slope of Mount Taurus , at the part where the river Eurymedon River forces its way through the mountains towards the south .
The town was believed to be a Greek colony , for Strabo states that it was founded by Spartans , but adds the somewhat unintelligible remark that previously it had been founded by Calchas .
The acropolis of Selge bore the name of Kesbedion .
The district in which the town was situated was extremely fertile , producing abundance of oil and wine , but the town itself was difficult of access , being surrounded by precipices and beds of torrents flowing towards the Eurymedon and Cestrus ( today Aksu ) , and requiring bridges to make them passable .
In consequence of its excellent laws and political constitution , Selge rose to the rank of the most powerful and populous city of Pisidia , and at one time was able to send an army of 20,000 men into the field .
Owing to these circumstances , and the valour of its inhabitants , for which they were regarded as worthy kinsmen of the Spartans , the Selgians were never subject to any foreign power , but remained in the enjoyment of their own freedom and independence .
When Alexander the Great passed through Pisidia ( 333 BC ) , Selge sent an embassy to him and gained his favour and friendship .
coreference:348:-----------------------------
Shorkot is a city in the Jhang District of Punjab , Pakistan .
It is located at 30°50'0N 72°4'0E with an altitude of 131 metres ( 433 ) and lies in the centre of the district , serving as the headquarters of Shorkot Tehsil .
The Sarfraz Rafiqi Airbase , the third largest in Pakistan , is located here .
The city is also the location of the tombs of the famous Sufis Hazrat Sultan Bahu and Hazrat Shah Mehmood Ghazi ( Ghazi Pir ) and Hazrat Pir Syed Mahboob Alam Shah Gilani .
The tomb of Pir Syed Mahboob Alam Shah is in the centre of the Town .
He was sent to Shorkot to spread Islam by the Mughal Emperor Shah Alam .
Recently a book compiling his Sufic writing has been published .
History .
Alexander The Great faced bitter resistance in Shorkot when fighting the Malhi in 325 BC .
coreference:352:-----------------------------
The invasion of Babylonia by Cyrus was doubtless facilitated by the existence of a disaffected party in the state , as well as by the presence of foreign exiles like the Jews , who had been planted in the midst of the country .
One of the first acts of Cyrus accordingly was to allow these exiles to return to their own homes , carrying with them the images of their gods and their sacred vessels .
The permission to do so was embodied in a proclamation , whereby the conqueror endeavored to justify his claim to the Babylonian throne .
The feeling was still strong that none had a right to rule over western Asia until he had been consecrated to the office by Bel and his priests ; and accordingly , Cyrus henceforth assumed the imperial title of `` King of Babylon . ''
Babylon , like Assyria became a colony of Achaaemenid Persia .
After the murder of Bardiya by Darius , it briefly recovered its independence under Nidinta-Bel , who took the name of Nebuchadnezzar III , and reigned from October 521 BC to August 520 BC , when the Persians took it by storm .
A few years later , in 514 BC , Babylon again revolted and declared independence under King Arakha ; on this occasion , after its capture by the Persians , the walls were partly destroyed .
E-Saggila , the great temple of Bel , however , still continued to be kept in repair and to be a center of Babylonian patriotism .
Babylon remained a major city until Alexander the Great destroyed the Achaemenid Empire in 332 BC .
coreference:358:-----------------------------
The ruins of the castle were further damaged as a result of the Iran-Iraq war ( 1980-1988 ) that turned the area into an active battlefield .
The city was occupied during eight years of war between the two countries .
When Iraqi Army withdrew from the city they made sure that not a single wall stood before they left the town .
In June 2006 , archaeological excavations in Shirin’s castle resulted in the discovery of the dais of the castle which was used as the seat of the king .
The city is located near the international border between Iran and Iraq ( Khosravi ) .
The famed Silk Road passes through Ghasr-e Shirin , connecting the highlands of the Iranian Plateau through a natural opening in the Zagros mountain chain with the lowland Mesopotamia and whence , the Levant and the Mediterranean basin .
Being at the foothills of Zagros has made the city an important trade connection .
For centuries the town has hosted the caravans of Silks and goods from far east to Arabia and Byzantium and up until 1980 , when the Iran - Iraq war devastated the area , Ghastr-e Shirin had a large secondhand clothes market where items , ranging from American plaid jackets to Russian leather military motorcycle coats , could be obtained .
The Jews were first forced to migrate to East through Ghasr-e Shirin during ruling of Assyrian Empire in 800 BC. Alexander the Great made his way through the same road to invade Persia in 331 BC .
coreference:360:-----------------------------
Kanwarpal was succeeded by his son Gotpal who built a city named Goti Pal on the banks of the Jhelum .
His reign was marked by friendly relations with the rulers of Iran and there was mutual exchange of trade and army personnel between the two countries .
He ruled for fifty years and was succeeded by his son Sajanpal .
Sajanpal was a staunch Buddhist who had no heart in the affairs of the state .
His apathy led to the disintegration of the kingdom , which his forefathers had consolidated .
After his death , his son Bodhpal , popularly known as Raja Porus , ascended to the throne .
He ruled over areas called `` Chaj '' Doab ( between the rivers Jhelum and Chenab ) and a part of the `` Sindh Sagar '' Doab , between the Indus and Jhelum rivers .
Alexander 's invasion .
Alexander the Great crossed the Indus in 327 BC with the ambition of conquering India .
coreference:368:-----------------------------
Even with these changes history still continues much as it did on our Earth , with a few exceptions .
One flashback in the book is dated September 15 , 2001 , but makes no mention of the September 11 , 2001 attacks .
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Pitane ( Aeolis ) .
Pitane ( near Çandarlı , Turkey ) was an ancient Greek town of Aeolis , in Asia Minor .
In ancient times it was a port city and a member of the Delian League .
About 334 BC , Alexander the Great tried to take over the city , but was repulsed by Memnon of Rhodes and 5,000 Greek mercenaries provided by Darius III of Persia .
coreference:379:-----------------------------
India census , Poonch had a population of 23,442 .
Males constitute 56 % of the population and females 44 % .
Poonch has an average literacy rate of 79 % , higher than the national average of 59.5 % : male literacy is 84 % , and female literacy is 72 % .
In Poonch , 11 % of the population is under 6 years of age .
Muslims form 87 % of the total population , Hindus 6 % and Sikhs 7 % .
About 50 % of the total population of the district belong to the ST category which consists primarily of Gujjar and Bakarwaal population .
History .
Poonch has witnessed many historical era .
Around 326 BC when Alexander the Great invaded the lower Jhelum belt to fight with Porus , this region was known as Dravabhisar .
coreference:391:-----------------------------
Sabharwal Executive Officer All India Defence Cinemas Khokhran and Bhera .
The Imperial Gazetteer of India records the History of Bhera - “ In 1519 Babur held it to ransom , and in 1540 Sher Shah founded a new town , which ubder Akhbar became the head quarters of the sub division of the Subah of Lahore .
In the reign of Muhammad Shah , Raja Salamat Oglu , a Lipka Tatar of the Anand Tribe , administered Bhera and the surrounding country ; while Khushab was managed by Nawab Ahmdyar Khan , and the south eastern tract along the Chenab formed part of the territories under the charge of Maharaja Kaura Mal , governor of Multan [ 14 ] ” “ About the same time , by the death of Nawab Ahmdyar Khan , Khushab also passed into the hands of Raja Salamat Rai .
Shortly afterwards Abbas Khan a Khattak who held Pind Daddan Khan , treacherously put the Raja to death , and seized Bhera .
But Abbas Khan was himself thrown into prison as a revenue defaulter and , and Fateh Singh , nephew of Salamat Rai then recovered his uncles dominions. [ 15 ] ” In the recent past centuries , Bhera was an important trading outpost on the road to Kabul , and had a taksal or ( mint ) during the rule of Ranjit Singh .
Bhera declined in importance due to the gradual shifting of the course of the Jhelum river , due to which the town lost the advantage of being located on a river bank .
Khukhrain King Porus .
The Sabharwal last name has many references during the time of King Porus who was a Sabharwal Khukhrain .
In 326 BC , Alexander the Great , whose forces were then fighting against the army of King Porus , at the left bank of river Jhelum near Southern Salt Range , wrote in a letter to his mother and said , ‘I am involved in the land of leonine ( lion-like ) and brave people called 'Khukhrain’ , where every foot of the ground is like a wall of steel , confronting my soldiers .
coreference:394:-----------------------------
Reduced to an arcane philosophical system , poorly connected to the material world , it suffered the common fate of other esoteric disciplines such as astrology and Kabbalah : excluded from university curricula , shunned by its former patrons , ostracized by scientists , and commonly viewed as the epitome of charlatanism and superstition .
Rosencrutzians and freemasons have , however , always been interested in alchemy and its symbolism .
A large collection of books on alchemy is kept in the Bibliotheca Philosophica Hermetica in Amsterdam .
These developments could be interpreted as part of a broader reaction in European intellectualism against the Romantic movement of the preceding century .
Indian alchemy .
The oldest Indian writings , the Vedas ( Hindu sacred scriptures ) , contain the same hints of alchemy that are found in evidence from ancient China , namely vague references to a connection between gold and long life .
Mercury , which was so vital to alchemy everywhere , is first mentioned in the 4th- to 3rd-century-BC Artha-śāstra , about the same time it is encountered in China and in the West .
Evidence of the idea of transmuting base metals to gold appears in 2nd- to 5th-century-AD Buddhist texts , about the same time as in the West .
Since Alexander the Great had invaded Ancient India in 325 BC , leaving a Greek state ( Gandhāra ) that long endured , the possibility exists that the Indians acquired the idea from the Greeks , but it could have been the other way around .
coreference:395:-----------------------------
Satirical plays - `` Kinchit Jalajog '' ( Some Refreshments , 1873 ) , `` Eman Karma Ar Korbo Na '' ( I will never do such a thing again 1877 ) , `` Hathath Nabab '' ( Suddenly a Ruler , 1884 ) , `` Alik Babu '' ( Strange Man , 1900 ) .
Translations - Kalidas’s `` Abhijñānaśākuntalam '' ( The Recognition of Shakuntala ) and `` Malati Madhava '' ( Malati and Madhava ) ; Sudrak’s `` Mrichhatika '' ( Little Clay Cart ) ; Marcus Aurelius’ `` Meditations '' , Shakespeare’s `` Julius Caeser '' ; Bal Gangadhar Tilak’s `` Geetarahasya '' .
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
The Afghan Campaign .
`` The Afghan Campaign '' is a historical novel by the American writer Steven Pressfield .
It was first published in 2006 by the Broadway division of Random House .
It is the story of Alexander the Great 's invasion of the Afghan kingdoms ( the Afghanistan of today ) in 330 BC through the eyes of Matthias ( Μαντίθεος in Greek ) , a young soldier from Macedonia , who narrates the adventures of the Greek army against the Eastern warriors .
coreference:397:-----------------------------
( For a full discussion , see Gilson , pp. 84–95 )
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Chinese exploration .
Chinese exploration was an age of exploratory Chinese travels abroad , on land and by sea , from the 2nd century BC until the 15th century .
Pamir Mountains and beyond .
By traveling past the Tarim Basin region , the Chinese of the Han Dynasty learned of powerful kingdoms in Central Asia , Persia , India , and the Middle East with the travels of the Han Dynasty envoy Zhang Qian in the 2nd century BC .
From 104 BC to 102 BC Emperor Wu of Han waged war against the Yuezhi who controlled Dayuan , a Hellenized kingdom of Fergana that was established by Alexander the Great in 329 BC .
coreference:407:-----------------------------
Some of his verses are also quoted by Tzetzes .
There was an epic poet of the same name , who was called a native of Mytilene and a pupil of Aristotle , and who is said to have accompanied Alexander the Great on some of his expeditions .
He is mentioned in the Suda , and also by Tzetzes .
As he was also a writer of iambics and choliambics , many scholars have supposed him to be identical with the Aeschrion from Samos , and to have been called a Mytilenaean in consequence of having resided for some time in that city .
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Aeschylus of Rhodes .
Aeschylus ( Gr. ) of Rhodes was appointed by Alexander the Great one of the inspectors of the governors of that country after its conquest in 332 BC .
coreference:425:-----------------------------

<sectionStart>
Umm Qasr Port .
Umm Qasr Port is Iraq 's only deep water port , part of the city of Umm Qasr .
Iraq 's second port in scale of size and goods shipped to the port of Basra , it is strategically important , located on the western edge of the al-Faw peninsula , where the mouth of the Shatt al Arab waterway enters the Persian Gulf .
It is separated from the border of Kuwait by a small inlet .
Prior to the Persian Gulf War , traffic between Kuwait and Iraq flowed over a bridge .
History .
Umm Qasr was originally a small fishing town , but was said to have been the site of Alexander the Great 's landing in Mesopotamia in 325 BC .
coreference:428:-----------------------------
Jalalpur Sharif .
Jalalpur Sharif is a small town located in Jhelum , and is a Union Council of Pind Dadan Khan Tehsil in Jhelum District , Punjab province , Pakistan .
It is located at 32°39'34N 73°24'19E , making it approximately 42 km south west of the city of Jhelum .
History .
Jalalpur modern name came from the renaming of its ancient name , `` Girjakh '' , by its king Malik Darwesh Khan Janjua who was also a high ranking General of the Imperial Mughal Army under Emperor Jalaluddin Muhammad Akbar’s reign .
It is stated that Malik Darwesh ordered the renaming of Girjakh ( part of his extended kingdom ) to Jalalpur , when Emperor Akbar visited him .
This was done in honour of the Emperor and the Janjua family 's relationship .
Jalalpur at this point was a flourishing centre of trade for the region .
The history of region dates back to 326 BC when Alexander the Great and his troops camped in the area of Jalalpur Sharif prior to their battle with Raja Porus.About 9 kilometers north of jlalpur sharif the village `` Nagial '' is located .
coreference:453:-----------------------------
<sectionStart>
Aretis .
Aretis ( Greek : ) was the anaboleus riding-servant of Alexander the Great in the battle of Granicus .
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Habreas .
Habreas ( or `` Abreas '' was a Macedonian soldier with the rank of `` dimoirites '' ( `` half-file leader '' ) .
In the battle of Malli in 325 BC , he accompanied Alexander the Great , Leonnatus , Peucestas and a certain Limnaeus .
coreference:458:-----------------------------
<sectionStart>
Panegorus .
Panegorus ( Greek : ) son of Lycagoras , was a Macedonian hetairos .
He was left behind with an undisclosed force to occupy the city of Priapus in Troad , which surrendered to Alexander the Great as he continued to Granicus in 334 BC .
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Zephyrus ( soldier ) .
Zephyrus , according to the apocryphal Letter to Aristotle 14 ( See Secretum Secretorum ) , was the soldier , who brought Alexander the Great a helmet full of water when the army was suffering greatly in the Gedrosian desert ( 325 BC ) .
coreference:468:-----------------------------
Ptolemaic Baris .
The Ptolemaic Baris ( also Ptolemaic Acra ) was a citadel maintained by Ptolemaic Egypt during its rule of Jerusalem in the 3rd century BC .
Described by only a few ancient sources , no archaeological remains of the citadel have been found and much about it remains a matter of conjecture .
Persian Origins ? After the conquest of Babylon by the Persian Empire , Cyrus the Great allowed the Jews to return to their native land and rebuild Jerusalem , sacked by Nebuchadnezzar II in 586 BC .
While rebuilding the city 's fortifications , the Persian administration also constructed a new citadel north of the Temple Mount enclosure , as part of a general Persian effort to bolster the empire 's defences .
This citadel is the `` Biryah '' ( Hebrew : בירה ) referred to in Nehemiah 2:8 and 7:2 , appearing as the `` Baris '' in Greek translations of the Septuagint .
The origin of the word is not entirely clear , but may have been borrowed into Hebrew from Assyrian `` birtu '' or `` bistu '' meaning a citadel or castle within a city , or a fort located at a strategic position outside a city .
It may also derive from the Old Persian `` baru '' , meaning 'fort ' .
Jerusalem was taken by Alexander the Great in 332 BC , in between his siege of Tyre and the conquest of Egypt .
coreference:472:-----------------------------
It is in such setting that the Vedas , the Upanishads and the Aranyakas were composed which sing the glory of the Creator and lay down recepts of conduct for man to live righteously .
Human population at this period was very small , and forests were still plentiful .
When the great epic Ramayana was written there were still dense forests in Naimisharanya , Chitrakoot , Dandakaranya , and Panchavati which abounded in wildlife .
But by the time the Mahabharata was compiled , onslaughts had been made on forests and we read of the burning of the Khandava Vana .
To arrest such vandalism , which was adversely affecting the life of the people , some wise ancestor of ours must have declared cutting of trees a sin and planting and protecting them an act of piety .
Several useful species of plants were thus saved from extinction , such as the Banyan , the Pipal , the Bel , etc .
Even then some disappeared in course of time from particular areas , such as the Kadam , the Ashok , and the Bamboos from Vrindavan .
The chronicles of Chinese pilgrims mention dense Indian forests in birth-place of Lord Krishna .
Records relating to the invasion of Alexander the great in 326 BC mention the existence of almost impenetrable forests along the Indus .
