The city was visited in 333 BC by Alexander the Great , who envisioned himself as the new Achilles and carried the `` Iliad '' with him , but his court biographers do not mention the spear , which he would indeed have touched with excitement .
Aristotle ( , `` Aristotélēs '' ) ( 384 BC – 322 BC ) was a Greek philosopher , a student of Plato and teacher of Alexander the Great .
Alexander III of Macedon ( 356–323 BC ) , popularly known as Alexander the Great ( , `` Mégas Aléxandros '' ) , was a Greek king ( basileus ) of Macedon .
In the 4th century BC Alexander the Great conquered the peninsula .
In 332 BC , Alexander the Great conquered Egypt with little resistance from the Persians and was welcomed by the Egyptians as a deliverer .
Livy contemplated an alternative 4th Century BC in which Alexander the Great expanded his empire westward instead of eastward ; Livy asked , `` What would have been the results for Rome if she had been engaged in war with Alexander ? '' Joanot Martorell 's 1490 epic romance `` Tirant lo Blanc '' , written when the loss of Constantinople to the Turks was still a recent and traumatic memory to Christian Europe , tells the story of the valiant knight Tirant The White from Brittany who gets to the embattled remnant of the Byzantine Empire , becomes a Megaduke and commander of its armies , and manages to fight off the invading Ottoman armies of Mehmet II , save the city from Islamic conquest , and even chase the Turks deeper into lands they had conquered before .
Philippus claimed descent from Alexander the Great , and was elected consul in 56 BC .
Alexander the Great had led a coalition of the Greek states to war with Persia in 336 BC , but his Greek soldiers were hostages for the behavior of their states as much as allies .
In 330 BC it fell to Alexander the Great and after his death by Seleucid Greece .
It was founded around a small pharaonic town `` c. '' 331 BC by Alexander the Great .
Alexandria was founded by Alexander the Great in April 331 BC as ( `` Alexándreia '' ) .
They did so at the invitation of their long-time ally , king Philip V of Macedon , a direct descendant of Antigonus , one of the Diadochi , the generals of Alexander the Great who had shared out his empire after his death in 323 BC .
Emperor Wu of Han ( r. 141 BC-87 BC ) went to war with the Dayuan for this exact reason , since the Dayuan were hording a massive amount of tall , strong , Central Asian bred horses in the Hellenized-Greek region of Fergana ( established a bit earlier by Alexander the Great ) .
The Persian army of Xerxes I and later the Greek army of Alexander the Great crossed the Dardanelles in opposite directions to invade each other 's lands , in 480 BC and 334 BC respectively .
The 5th century BC Athenian `` tetradrachmon '' ( `` four drachma '' ) coin was the most widely used coin in the Greek world prior to the time of Alexander the Great .
Alexander the Great met stiff resistance there ( in 332 BC ) .
However , in 338 BC the rising power of Macedon overcame Greece , and under Alexander the Great turned its attention eastward .
It was coined by the historian Johann Gustav Droysen to refer to the spreading of Greek culture and colonization over the non-Greek lands that were conquered by Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC , compared to `` Hellenic '' which describes Greek culture in its native form .
The nominal start of the Hellenistic period is usually taken as the 323 BC death of Alexander the Great in Babylon .
The detailed history of Afghanistan begins around 330 BC with the arrival of Alexander the Great ( Sikandar ) and his Greek army although civilization had existed on the land for thousands of years .
The Achaemenid dynasty of the Persian Empire , founded by Cyrus the Great , ruled an area from Greece and Turkey to the Indus River and Central Asia during the 6th to 4th centuries BC. Alexander the Great conquered this empire in the 4th century BC .
In late 330 BC , Alexander the Great captured the Arian capital that was called Artacoana .
Various invaders conquered the land after Nebuchadnezzar 's death , including Cyrus the Great in 539 BC and Alexander the Great in 331 BC , who died there in 323 BC .
In the 6th century BC , it became part of the Achaemenid Empire , then was conquered by Alexander the Great and remained under Greek rule under the Seleucid dynasty for nearly two centuries .
Jericho went from being an administrative center under Persian rule , to serving as the private estate of Alexander the Great between 336 and 323 BC after his conquest of the region .
In 3rd century BC , the Ancient Greeks colonized the island , Failaka , on today 's Kuwait coast under Alexander the Great and named it `` Ikaros '' .
Alexander the Great explored the area during his conquest of the Achaemenid Empire in 330 BC but did n't mention any city by the name of Kabul .
Kandahar was founded in 330 BC by Alexander the Great , near the site of the ancient city of Mundigak ( established around 3000 BC ) .
After Alexander the Great died unexpectedly at age 32 , Ptolemy Soter announced himself king in 305 BC , and ordered its construction shortly thereafter .
It was added to the empire of Alexander the Great , who notably conquered Tyre ( 332 BC ) by extending a still-extant causeway from the mainland in a seven-month effort .
It fell to Alexander the Great in 332 BC and after his death it became part of the Greek Seleucid Empire , by around 150 BC Mesopotamia was under the control of the Parthians .
Gymnosophy and religious nakedness. `` and American_Gymnosophical_Association '' In the fourth century BC , Alexander the Great encountered , in India , wandering groups of naked holy men whom he dubbed the `` naked philosophers '' .
In 334 BC - 331 BC Alexander the Great , also known in the Zoroastrian `` Arda Wiraz Nâmag '' as `` the accursed Alexander '' , defeated Darius III in the battles of Granicus , Issus and Gaugamela , swiftly conquering the Persian Empire by 331 BC. Alexander 's empire broke up shortly after his death , and Alexander 's general , Seleucus I Nicator , tried to take control of Persia , Mesopotamia , and later Syria and Asia Minor .
Though elements of Koine Greek took shape during the late Classical Era , the post-Classical period of Greek dates from the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC , when cultures under Hellenistic sway in turn began to influence the language .
The Sacred Band of Thebes ( an elite military unit ) famously fell at the battle of Chaeronea in 338 BC against Philip II and Alexander the Great .
Philip was content to deprive Thebes of her dominion over Boeotia ; but an unsuccessful revolt in 335 BC against his son Alexander the Great was punished by Alexander and his Greek allies by the destruction of the city , except , according to tradition , the house of the poet Pindar and the temples .
The Archaic period gives way to the Classical period around 500 BC , in turn succeeded by the Hellenistic period at the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BCE .
Alexander the Great died at an early age in 323 BC without having had time to put into place any plans for his succession .
Two hundred years later , in 333 BC , the armies of Alexander the Great arrived in Perga during his war of conquest against the Persians .
In 334 BC , the city was liberated from Persian rule by Alexander the Great .
Both authors list the distances of routes traveled by Alexander the Great ( r. 336-323 BC ) as measured by his bematists Diognetus and Baeton .
A few years after the death of Alexander the Great , Macedonian king Antigonus — who had taken control of much of Asia Minor upon the death of Alexander ( under whom Antigonus had served as a general ) — probably after his victory over Eumenes , in 316 BC , rebuilt the town , and called it , after himself , Antigoneia ( ) .
The destruction of Thebes by Alexander the Great ( 335 BC ) seems to have removed the political energy of the Boeotians .
During the troubled period following the death of Alexander the Great , Mithridates Ktistes was for a time in the service of Antigonus , one of Alexander 's successors , and successfully maneuvering in this unsettled time managed , shortly after 302 BC , to create the Kingdom of Pontus which would be ruled by his descendants mostly bearing the same name , till 64 BC .
In 333 BC , while wintering at Gordium , Alexander the Great attempted to untie the knot .
375–316 BC ) was a Greek princess of Epirus , daughter of king Neoptolemus I of Epirus , the fourth wife of the king of Macedonia , Philip II , and mother of Alexander the Great .
After Alexander the Great 's death in Babylon in 323 BC , his wife Roxana bore him a posthumus son who was called Alexander IV .
Alexander the Great later captured it from the Persians in 334 BC .
Ptolemy I Soter I ( Greek : , `` Ptolemaĩos Sōtḗr '' , i.e. Ptolemy ( pronounced /'tɒləmi ) the Savior , ca.367 BC—ca.283 BC ) was a Macedonian Greek general under Alexander the Great who became ruler of Egypt ( 323 BC—283 BC ) and founder of both the Ptolemaic Kingdom and the Ptolemaic Dynasty .
Antiochus I was half Persian , his mother Apama being one of the eastern princesses whom Alexander the Great had given as wives to his generals in 324 BC .
Seleucus I ( given the surname by later generations of Nicator ( which means victorious in ancient Macedonian ) , Greek : Σέλευκος Νικάτωρ ( ) , i.e. Seleucus the Victor ) ( `` ca. '' 358 BC–281 BC ) was a Macedonian officer of Alexander the Great and one of the Diadochi .
Alexander the Great died without a successor in Babylon on June 10 , 323 BC .
Perdiccas ( , `` Perdikkas '' ; died 321 BC or 320 BC ) was one of Alexander the Great 's generals .
In 322 BC , he broke off his engagement with Nicaea , daughter of Antipater , because Olympias offered him the hand of Cleopatra , a sister of Alexander the Great .
The cultural dominance of the Athenian Empire and the later adoption of Attic Greek by king Philip II of Macedon ( 382-336 BC ) , father of the conqueror Alexander the Great , were the two keys that ensured the eventual victory of Attic over other Greek dialects and the spread of its descendant , `` Koine '' , throughout Alexander 's Hellenic empire .
The city remained in Persian hands until 331 BC , when the soldiers of the Macedonian conqueror Alexander the Great entered the city .
In 339 BC , it was unsuccessfully besieged by Philip II ( priests of the Getae persuaded him to conclude a treaty ) but surrendered to Alexander the Great in 335 BC , and was later ruled by his diadochus Lysimachus , against whom it rebelled in 313 BC as part of a coalition with other Pontic cities and the Getae .
Antigonus I Monophthalmus ( , `` Antigonus the One-eyed '' , 382 BC - 301 BC ) son of Philip from Elimeia , was a Macedonian nobleman , general , and satrap under Alexander the Great .
Perseus ( Greek : `` Περσεύς '' ) ( ca. 212 BC - 166 BC ) was the last king ( `` Basileus '' ) of the Antigonid dynasty , who ruled the successor state in Macedon created upon the death of Alexander the Great .
The Battle of Pydna in 168 BC between Rome and the Macedonian Antigonid dynasty saw the further ascendancy of Rome in the Hellenic/Hellenistic world and the end of the Antigonid line of kings , whose power traced back to Alexander the Great .
After invading Persia , Alexander the Great sent the main force of his army to Persepolis in the year 330 BC by the Royal Road .
But Kassites again fought on the Persian side in the Battle of Gaugamela in 331 BC , in which the Persian Empire fell to Alexander the Great , according to Diodorus Siculus ( 17.59 ) ( who called them `` Kossaei '' ) and Curtius Rufus ( 4.12 ) ( who called them `` inhabitants of the Cossaean mountains '' ) .
The Sogdian Rock or Rock of Ariamazes , a fortress in Sogdiana , was captured in 327 BC by the forces of Alexander the Great ; after an extended campaign putting down Sogdian resistance and founding military outposts manned by his Macedonian veterans , Alexander united Sogdiana with Bactria into one satrapy .
The reconstruction of Piraeus went on during the period of Alexander the Great , but this revival of the town was quashed by Roman Lucius Cornelius Sulla , who captured and totally destroyed Piraeus in 86 BC .
Nearchus or Nearch ( ; c. 360 - 300 BC ; sometimes written Neärchus or Neärch ) was one of the officers , a navarch , in the army of Alexander the Great .
Anatolia was heavily Hellenized following the conquests of Alexander the Great , and it is generally thought that by the 1st century BC the native languages of the area were extinct .
There were tensions between Hellenism and Judaism following the conquests of Alexander the Great , see for example the Maccabean Revolt of 167 BC .
After the conquests of Alexander the Great in the late 300 's BC , a new international dialect known as Koine or Common Greek developed , largely based on Attic Greek , but with influence from other dialects .
During the succession struggle between Ptolemy and Antigonus that followed Alexander the Great 's death in 323 BC , Kyrenia was subdued under the rule of the kingdom of Lapithos that allied itself with Antigonus .
The lands of the former Kingdom of Israel and Kingdom of Judah ( c. 930 BC–586 BC ) , had been occupied by Babylonia , the Achaemenid Empire , and Alexander the Great 's Hellenic Macedonian empire ( c. 330 BC ) , although Jewish religious practice and culture had persisted and even flourished during certain periods .
Hellenistic rule came with the arrival of Alexander the Great in the area in 332 BC .
In 342 BC , it was conquered by Philip II of Macedon , the father of Alexander the Great , who renamed it `` Φιλιππόπολις '' , `` Philippopolis '' or `` the city of Philip '' in his own honour .
In the 4th century BC , Cyprus was conquered by Alexander the Great and subsequently ruled by the Ptolemaic Egypt until 58 BC , when it was incorporated into the Roman Empire .
Beginning with the collapse of the Hittite Empire , c. 1191-1189 BC , invasions from the west caused a number of small kingdoms to take control of the plain , as follows : Kue Assyrians , 9th century BC ; Cilician Kingdom , Persians , 6th century BC ; Alexander the Great in 333 BC ; Seleucids ; the pirates of Cilicia ; and Roman statesman Pompey the Great .
Europeans first came in contact with elephants in 327 BC , when Alexander the Great descended into India from the Hindu Kush , but Alexander was quick to adopt them .
He dated Apelles to the 112th Olympiad ( 332-329 BC ) , possibly because he had produced a portrait of Alexander the Great .
The Achaemenids were finally overthrown by the conquest of Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
Alexander the Great conquered the territory in the fourth century BC on his way to Central Asia , around the time that the Silk Road was established as a major trading route between Asia and the Mediterranean Region .
It was said to have been the site of Alexander the Great 's landing in Mesopotamia in 325 BC .
The city was taken by Alexander the Great in 331 BC .
Alexander IV Aegus ( Greek : `` Ἀλέξανδρος Aἰγός '' — 323–309 BC ) was the son of Alexander the Great ( Alexander III of Macedon ) and the princess Roxana , of Bactria .
When Antipater died in 319 BC he left Polyperchon , a Macedonian general who had served under Philip II and Alexander the Great , as his successor , passing over his own son , Cassander .
In 323 BC , Alexander the Great led his army into Persia , defeating Darius III , conquering Babylon , and taking control of the Persian Empire .
The area in which the border runs has been inhabited by ethnic Pashtun tribes since at least the time of Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
Hephaestion ( Greek : , alternative spelling : `` Hephaistion '' ; c. 356 BC – 324 BC ) , son of Amyntor , was a Macedonian nobleman and a general in the army of Alexander the Great .
Heracles of Macedon ( ca. 327 BC - 309 BC ) was a reputed illegitimate son of Alexander the Great of Macedon by Barsine , daughter of Satrap Artabazus of Phrygia .
In the third century BC , it was destroyed by Lysimachus—a Macedonian officer , one of the successors ( Diadochi ) of Alexander the Great , later a king ( 306 BCE ) in Thrace and Asia Minor , during the same era when he nearly destroyed ( and did depopulate by forced expulsion ) the neighboring Ionian League city of Lebedos .
Alexander the Great stopped here with his army after crossing the Khawak Pass north into the Kunduz River valley before his offensive against Bactria in 329 BC .
Antipater ( ; ca. 397 BC — 319 BC ) was a Macedonian general and a supporter of kings Philip II of Macedon and Alexander the Great .
The settlement was founded by Alexander the Great in 333 BC to supersede Myriandrus as the key to the Syrian Gates , about 23 miles south of the scene of his victory at the Battle of Issus .
But this second period of Persian rule proved to be nearly as short as the first , and the islands became part of the rapidly growing Macedonian Empire as Alexander the Great swept through and defeated the Persians in 332 BC , to the great relief of the islands ' inhabitants .
It was completely annihilated , however , by Alexander the Great under Philip II of Macedon in the Battle of Chaeronea in 338 BC .
Xerxes ' army crossed at this point on a bridge in 480 BC , and most of Alexander the Great 's forces went the other way here by boat in 334 BC .
When the king of Khwarezm offered friendship to Alexander the Great in 328 BC , Alexander 's Greek and Roman biographers imagined the nomad king of a desert waste , but 20th century Russian archeologists revealed the region as a stable and centralized kingdom , a land of agriculture to the east of the Aral Sea , surrounded by the nomads of Central Asia , protected by its army of mailed horsemen , in the most powerful kingdom northwest of the Amu Darya ( the Oxus River of antiquity ) .
Other historians say Swatis were brave Assakenois and a related section Aspasios as Yousafzais , who had fought great wars against Alexander the Great in 326-27 BC .
Some of the world 's most prominent Tumuli , the Macedonian tombs and a cist-grave at Vergina include the tomb of Philip II ( 359–336 BC ) , father of Alexander the Great ( 336–323 BC ) , as well as the tomb of Alexander IV ( 323–309 BC ) , son of Alexander the Great .
In 326 BC , the army of Alexander the Great approached the boundaries of Magadha .
In 332 BC Mazaces handed over the country to Alexander the Great without a fight .
The Classical period then began , and lasted until the conquests of Alexander the Great in about 330 BC , which began the Hellenistic period , extending until the Roman absorption of the Greek world in the 1st century BCE .
After Alexander the Great 's death in 323 BC , various Macedonian generals such as Neoptolemus tried to take control of the region , but ultimately failed and a native dynasty of Orontids flourished until Armenia was conquered by Antiochus III the Great .
Subsequent rulers of the area include Alexander the Great , who after defeating the Persians in 333 BC followed the Orontes south into Syria .
The first historically documented invasion of the region that is now called `` Afghanistan '' was made by Alexander the Great in 330 BC as part of his string of conquests .
According to the Greek historical texts which bring mention of the city of Sialkot dating back to before 327 BC when the city was known as Sagala , it represented the eastern-most outpost and expansion of the Hellenic Empire created by Alexander the Great which has been cross-correlated to ancient Greek maps of the era and several monuments found in the Sialkot District .
In the 320s BC , Alexander the Great captured the city and established a fortified colony named Alexandria of the Caucasus .
He assassinated Philip in 336 BC , possibly at the instigation of Philip 's wife Olympias , or even his son Alexander the Great .
After the death of Philip , Alexander the Great passed through the lands of the Odryssians in 335-334 BC , crossing the Haemus ranges and after three encounters ( Battle of Haemus , Battle at Lyginus river , Battle at Peuce Island ) defeated and drove the Triballians to the junction of the Lyginus at the Danube , 3,000 Triballi were killed , the rest fled .
Dinocrates of Rhodes ( also Deinocrates ; , fl. last quarter of the 4th century BC ) was a Greek architect and technical adviser for Alexander the Great .
From around 304 BC the area formed part of the Seleucid Empire , and from around 250 BC it was the centre of a Greco-Bactrian kingdom , ruled by the descendants of Greeks who had settled there following the conquest of Alexander the Great .
After the conquests of Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC the city 's population began to decrease as Greeks migrated to the Hellenistic empires in the East .
This system remained remarkably stable , and with a few brief interruptions remained in place for 170 years , until Alexander the Great conquered Athens in 338 BC .
The Seleucid era , called the `` Era of Contracts '' by Jews , formerly used in much of the Middle East from the 4th century BC to the 6th century AD , dates from the epoch 312 BC , August of that year being when Seleucus I Nicator captured Babylon and began his reign over the Asian portions of Alexander the Great 's empire .
From the 6th century BC onwards , several empires dominated the region , beginning with the Persian Empire of the Achaemenids , followed by the Macedonian Empire founded by Alexander the Great , and successor kingdoms such as Ptolemaic Egypt and the Seleucid state in Syria .
In 327 BC Alexander the Great conquered Gandhara and the Indian Satrapies of the Persian Empire .
Cyrene was conquered by Alexander the Great in 331 BC and fell to the portion of Ptolemy I in the division of Alexander 's Empire .
Alexander the Great 's campaign from 334 to 323 BC brought Syria under Hellenic influence .
Although its theatrical traditions seem to have lost their vitality , Greek theatre continued into the Hellenistic period ( the period following Alexander the Great 's conquests in the fourth century BC ) .
The Empire was founded in 322 BC by Chandragupta Maurya , who had overthrown the Nanda Dynasty and rapidly expanded his power westwards across central and western India taking advantage of the disruptions of local powers in the wake of the withdrawal westward by Alexander the Great 's Greek and Persian armies .
The traditional date for the end of the Ancient Greek period is the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC .
The Hellenistic period of Greek history begins with the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC and ends with the annexation of the Greek peninsula and islands by Rome in 146 BC .
In the context of Ancient Greek art , architecture , and culture , Hellenistic Greece corresponds to the period between the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC and the annexation of the classical Greek heartlands by Rome in 146 BC focuses on the history of 'Greece proper ' ( effectively the area of modern Greece ) during this period .
As a result , Old Smyrna was destroyed in 545 BC. Alexander the Great re-founded the city around 340 BC. Alexander had defeated the Persians in several battles and finally the Emperor Darius III himself at Issus in 333 BC .
Alexander the Great founded his first colony `` Alexandrupolis '' in 340 BC .
The Battle of Ipsus was fought between some of the Diadochi ( the successors of Alexander the Great ) in 301 BC near the village of that name in Phrygia .
When Alexander the Great died ( June 10 , 323 BC ) , he left behind a huge empire which was composed of many essentially independent territories .
Their first attested appearance is at the Siege of Tyre by Alexander the Great in 332 BC , and a few years later , they appear in the surviving naval lists of Athens .
Like the septireme , the deceres ( ) is attributed by Pliny to Alexander the Great , and they are present alongside `` nines '' in the fleet of Antigonus Monophthalmus in 315 BC .
It was easy to mount catapults on galleys ; Alexander the Great had used them to considerable effect when he besieged Tyre from the sea in 332 BC .
`` For other uses , see Craterus ( disambiguation ) '' Craterus ( Greek : `` Κρατερός '' , ca. 370 BC – 321 BC ) was a Macedonian general under Alexander the Great and one of the Diadochi .
He was born during or before Alexander the Great 's reign over Babylon ( 330-323 BC ) , with the earliest date suggested as 340 BC .
The Achaemenids in turn were defeated by Alexander the Great in 330 BC , but the Median satrap Atropates was allowed to remain in power .
The Battle of the Hydaspes River was fought by Alexander the Great in 326 BC against the king Porus ( Pururava in Sanskrit ) on the banks of Hydaspes River ( the Jhelum ) in the Punjab region near Bhera now in Pakistan .
In 326 BC , the army of Alexander the Great approached the boundaries of the Magadha .
Meleager ( ; died 323 BC ) , son of Neoptolemus , was a Macedonian officer of distinction in the service of Alexander the Great .
Polyperchon ( Greek `` Πολυπέρχων '' 394–303 BC ) son of Simmias from Tymphaia in Epirus , was a Macedonian general who served under Philip II and Alexander the Great , accompanying Alexander throughout his long journeys .
The Peace of Antalcidas in 387 BC officially ceded control of these areas to Persia ; it would continue to hold them until the arrival of Alexander the Great half a century later .
The Battle of the Granicus River in May 334 BC was the first of three major battles fought between Alexander the Great and the Persian Empire .
The Athenians upon learning of the death of Alexander the Great in June 323 BC decided to rebel against Macedonian hegemony in Greece .
The religious tension between the Jews and the Samaritans lead to the temple on Gerizim being destroyed by either John Hyrcanus in the 2nd century BC ( according to Josephus ) or by Simeon the Just ( according to the Talmud ) , who was permitted to do so by Alexander the Great , the land at that time falling under Alexander 's empire .
The onset of the Persian Wars ( 480 BC to 448 BC ) is usually taken as the dividing line between the Archaic and the Classical periods , and the reign of Alexander the Great ( 336 BC to 323 BC ) is taken as separating the Classical from the Hellenistic periods .
Following the conquests of Alexander the Great ( 336 BC to 323 BC ) , Greek culture spread as far as India , as revealed by the excavations of Ai-Khanoum in eastern Afghanistan , and the civilization of the Greco-Bactrians and the Indo-Greeks .
Discoveries made since the end of the 19th century surrounding the ( now submerged ) ancient Egyptian city of Heracleum include a 4th century BC , unusually sensual , detailed and feministic ( as opposed to deified ) depiction of Isis , marking a combination of Egyptian and Hellenistic forms beginning around the time of Egypt 's conquest by Alexander the Great .
Greek cities in Italy such as Syracuse began to put the heads of real people on coins in the 4th century BC , as did the Hellenistic successors of Alexander the Great in Egypt , Syria and elsewhere .
In 326 BC , Alexander the Great conquered the northwestern part of the Indian subcontinent as far as the Hyphasis River , and established satrapies and founded several settlements , including Bucephala ; he turned south when his troops refused to go further east .
In 333 BC Alexander the Great brought this coast within his Macedonian Empire , and he was succeeded by Seleucids and then Ancient Romans .
Further legends make him born in today 's Kabul in the end of 326 BC and a son of Alexander the Great by Dkhti , daughter of Subhuti ( d. aft .
After his capture of Miletus in 334 BC Alexander the Great reconsecrated the oracle but placed its administration of the oracle in the hands of the city , where the priest in charge was annually elected .
The city , with the rest of Lycia , surrendered to Alexander the Great in 333 BC .
In 325 BC , Alexander the Great crossed the area on his way back to Babylon after campaigning in the east .
In 325 BC , Alexander the Great commissioned Nearchus to set off an expedition voyage into the Sea of Oman and the Persian Gulf .
She acquired so much wealth by her extraordinary beauty that she offered to rebuild the walls of Thebes , which had been destroyed by Alexander the Great ( 336 BC ) , on condition that the words `` destroyed by Alexander , restored by Phryne the courtesan '' , were inscribed upon them .
“Lady Moon” in Uzbek , possibly the historical Alexandria on the Oxus , also possibly later named Eucratidia ) , was founded in the 4th century BC , following the conquests of Alexander the Great and was one of the primary cities of the Greco-Bactrian kingdom .
In China , archaeologists have found remains of ice pits from the seventh century BC , and references suggest they were in use before 1100 BC. Alexander the Great around 300 BC stored snow in pits dug for that purpose .
Alexander the Great passed through with his armies in 333 BC and nearly met his death here after a bath in the Cydnus .
After Alexander the Great conquered Persia , he appointed ( 328 BC ) as governor the Persian general Atropates , who eventually established an independent dynasty .
It was under Babylonian control until 536 BC , when it fell to the Achamaenid Persians , and remained so until taken by Alexander the Great in 332 BC .
The naval Battle of Salamis took place in 306 BC near Salamis , Cyprus between the fleets of Ptolemy I of Egypt and Demetrius , two of the diadochi , the successors to Alexander the Great .
In 328 BC , Alexander the Great introduced into his court etiquette some form of genuflection already in use in Persia .
Sogdian Rock or Rock of Ariamazes , a fortress located north of Bactria in Sogdiana ( near Samarkand on the northern Silk Road ) , was captured by the forces of Alexander the Great in 327 BC as part of his conquest of the Achaemenid Empire .
Since Alexander the Great had invaded India in 325 BC , leaving a Greek state ( Gandhāra ) that long endured , the possibility exists that the Indians acquired the idea from the Greeks , but it could have been the other way around .
This period of Greek literature stretches from Homer until the 4th century BC and the rise of Alexander the Great .
The coin was introduced by Darius the Great of Persia some time between 522 BC and 486 BC and ended with Alexander the Great 's invasion in 330 BC .
The Persian king Darius III employed about 50 Indian elephants in the Battle of Gaugamela ( 331 BC ) fought against Alexander the Great .
In 305 BC , Chandragupta defeated Seleucus I Nicator , who ruled the Seleucid Empire and controlled most of the territories conquered by Alexander the Great .
Greek communities lived in the northwest of the Mauryan empire , in the region of Pakistan , notably ancient Gandhara near the Pakistani capital of Islamabad , and in southern Afghanistan in the region of Gedrosia , following the conquest and the colonization efforts of Alexander the Great around 323 BC .
Memnon of Rhodes ( 380 – 333 BC ) was the commander of the Greek mercenaries working for the Persian king Darius III when Alexander the Great of Macedonia invaded Persia in 334 BC .
Charsadda was once part of the kingdom of Gandhara , however around 516 B.C Gandhara became part of the seventh satrapy or province of the Achaemenid Empire and paid tribute to Darius the Great of Persia , until its overthrow by Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC .
Lord of Asia ( in `` Greek '' Κύριος της Ασίας ) was the title given to Alexander the Great after the Battle of Gaugamela in 331 BC .
Hellenistic culture spread throughout the empire created by Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC .
But in 358 BC , Philip II of Macedon , father of Alexander the Great , defeated the Illyrians and assumed control of their territory as far as Lake Ohrid .
First mentioned in the 19th century BC in Egyptian inscriptions , its name was Hellenised to Pella , perhaps to honour Alexander the Great 's birthplace .
After the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC , Philetaerus became embroiled in the struggle for supremacy , called the Wars of the Diadochi ( diadochi means `` successors '' in Greek ) between Alexander 's regional governors , Antigonus in Phrygia , Lysimachus in Thrace and Seleucus in Babylonia ( among others ) .
Alexander the Great and his army crossed the Jhelum in BC 326 at the Battle of the Hydaspes River where he defeated the Indian king , Porus .
The port of Alexandria , founded by Alexander the Great in 334 BC , was a hub for Mediterranean trade for centuries .
400–Ecbatana , 330 BC ) was a Macedonian general in the service of Philip II of Macedon and Alexander the Great .
Alexander the Great suppressed a revolt in Thebes , Greece in 335 BC , after which he ordered the city to be torched and laid waste .
In 332 BC Alexander the Great lay siege to Tyre , a coastal base of the Phoenicians .
Leonnatus ( ; 356 BC - 322 BC ) , Macedonian officer of Alexander the Great and one of the `` diadochi . ''
The `` Lebor Gabála '' synchronises Cimbáeth 's reign to that of Alexander the Great ( 336–323 BC ) .
In 325 BC , Alexander the Great allegedly founded the town of Alexandria on the Indus ( present day Uch Sharif or Mithankot or Chacharan in Pakistan ) at the confluence of the Indus and the combined stream of Punjab rivers ( currently known as the Panjnad River ) .
After roughly 200 years of Persian rule , Alexander the Great captured Zile from Darius III of Persia as a result of the Battle of the Granicus ( 334 BC ) .
Following Alexander 's death in 323 BC and collapse of his empire , Zile 's rule was transferred to the Seleucid Empire , a Hellenistic successor state of Alexander the Great 's dominion .
Historians place the generalship of Julius Caesar ( 100 BC-44 BC ) on the level of such geniuses as Alexander the Great , Hannibal , Khalid ibn al-Walid , Genghis Khan and Napoleon Bonaparte .
The Persian Wars of 480 BC to 448 BC are usually taken as the dividing line between the Archaic and the Classical periods , and before the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC is regarded as separating the Classical from the Hellenistic period .
Alexander the Great brought the Library of Solomon from his conquest of Persia , where it was taken when the city was overcome by the Babylonians in 597 BC .
The statue was built to commemorate Rhodes ' victory over the invading Macedonians in 305 BC , led by Demetrius I , son of Antigonus , a general under Alexander the Great .
The Egyptian ( and later , Roman ) city of Alexandria ( founded by Alexander the Great in 334 BC ) was one of the hubs for Mediterranean trade for many centuries .
Following the campaigns of Alexander the Great in 330s BC , as the Persian Empire collapsed , Mithridates , an Armenian general of the Persian army , declared himself king of Lesser Armenia .
The Hellenistic period begins with the conquests of Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
Alexander the Great in the Qur'an refers to the conjecture that the story of Dhul-Qarnayn ( in Arabic ذو القرنين , literally `` The Two-Horned One '' , also transliterated as Zul-Qarnain or Zulqarnain ) , mentioned in the Qur'an , is in fact a reference to Alexander III of Macedon ( 356–323 BC ) , popularly known as Alexander the Great .
Since the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC there has been no age in history , whether in the West or the in the East , in which his name and exploits have not been famaliar .
Alexander 's successor Lysimachus ( 360-281 BC ) , also minted such coins and archaeologists have found a large number of different types of ancients coins depicting Alexander the Great with two horns .
The Siege of Tyre was a siege of the city of Tyre , a strategic coastal base on the Mediterranean Sea , orchestrated by Alexander the Great in 332 BC during his campaigns against the Persians .
Alexander the Great liberated the island from the Persians in 333 BC .
In 327 BC , Alexander the Great fought his way to Udegram and Barikot .
In addition , if he was knowledgeable of the Hebrew Bible , the implication is knowledge of Biblical Hebrew unless he had access to Aramaic Targums in written or oral form , and if he was a carpenter , he may have known some Koine Greek through commerce because Greek was the lingua franca of the eastern part of the Mediterranean Basin , displacing Aramaic , since the conquests of Alexander the Great ( 336 BC – 323 BC ) and the Seleucid and Ptolemaic Empires , see also Hellenistic Judaism and Septuagint .
Arrian , in Anabasis Alexandri , mentiones that prior to the Battle of the Granicus , in May 334 BC , the Persian satraps held a council at Zeleia where they discussed how best to confront Alexander the Great .
In the 320s BC , Alexander the Great conquered the entire Persian Empire ( including the Paropamisadae ) , beginning the Hellenistic period .
After Philip II had been assassinated and Alexander the Great had become king ( October 336 BC ) , Cleopatra Eurydice , her two children , and Attalus were all killed ( Cleopatra Eurydice may have died by her own hand after the murders of her children ) .
The Macedonian commander Alexander the Great ended Persian rule and in around 334 BC conquered the cities of the area one by one—except for Termessos and Sillyon which managed to repulse his armies in 333 BC .
Before being conquered by Alexander the Great in 330 BC , it was part of the Achaemenid and Median Persian Empire .
From the 7th century BC onwards the coast was ruled by Lydians from their capital at Sardis , then from 546 BC the Persians , and from 334 BC along with all of Anatolia the coast was conquered by Alexander the Great .
The Scythians were replaced by Persians and then in 330 ( ? ) BC Alexander the Great came through with his armies .
After Alexander the Great conquered Egypt around 331 BC , the capital became the city named for him , Alexandria , on the Mediterranean coast .
As Greek culture under Alexander the Great ( 356–323 BC ) and his successors spread from Asia Minor to Egypt and the border regions of India the Attic dialect became the basis of the Koiné ( Κοινή ; `` common '' ) .
Since Alexander the Great had invaded India in 325 BC , leaving a Greek state ( Gandhara ) that long endured , the possibility exists that the Indians acquired the idea from the Greeks , but it could have been the other way around .
Hieronymus of Cardia ( Thrace ) , Greek general and historian , contemporary of Alexander the Great ( 354-250 BC ) After the death of the king he followed the fortunes of his friend and fellow-countryman Eumenes .
Perhaps the most significant of these began in 334 BC , early in the history of Buddhism , when the Macedonian king Alexander the Great conquered most of Central Asia .
The Hellenistic period began in the 4th century BC with Alexander the Great 's conquest of the eastern Mediterranean , Egypt , Mesopotamia , the Iranian plateau , Central Asia , and parts of India , leading to the spread of the Greek language and culture across these areas .
Four centuries BC Alexander The Great introduced in Macedonia ancestral forms with lateral fruitfulness from Iran and Central Asia .
In 333 BC , he went with a single trireme to the Persian commanders in the Aegean , Pharnabazus and Autophradates , to request money and armaments for carrying on hostile operations against Alexander the Great in Greece .
In 332 BC , Alexander the Great conquered Egypt and for the next three centuries it was ruled by the Greek Ptolemaic dynasty .
The Roman emperor Caracalla ( 211–217 ) , wishing to make use of this civil war for a conquest of the East in imitation of his idol , Alexander the Great ( 336–323 BC ) , attacked the Parthians in 216 .
In 338 BC , after a whirlwind march south into central Greece , Philip II of Macedon defeated Thebes and Athens on the plain of Chaironeia during the First Battle of Chaeronea , establishing Macedonian supremacy over the city-states , and demonstrated the prowess of Philip 's young son Alexander the Great .
In `` The Masters of Wisdom '' , J.G. Bennett states that the Sarman left Babylon before the arrival of the Greek king of Macedon , Alexander the Great ( who reigned 336-323 BC ) , moved up the Tigris and made their headquarters in the abandoned capital of the Assyrian Kings , close to modern-day Mosul in northern Iraq .
Azo ( ; or Azoy , აზოჲ ) also known as Azon ( აზონი ) was a legendary ruler of Georgians of ancient Kartli ( Iberia of the Classical authors ) claimed by medieval Georgian annals to have been installed by Alexander the Great , king of Macedon ( r. 336–323 BC ) .
Alexander the Great chose to spend his winters and met his wife Roxanna in the area in 328-327 BC .
The flourishing Greek colony , having fallen into the hands of the Samnites , was retaken about 335 BC by King Alexander of Epirus , uncle of Alexander the Great .
This tradition was later assimilated by the Greeks , after Alexander the Great conquered Egypt in 332 BC .
The armies of Alexander The Great reached the Indus Valley by two separate routes , one through the Khyber Pass and the other personally led by Alexander through Kunar , Bajaur , Swat , and Buner in 326 BC .
When Alexander the Great invaded Syria in 332 BC Arvad submitted without a struggle under her king Strato , who sent his navy to aid Alexander in the reduction of Tyre .
Then in 344 BC Alexander the Great and his Macedonians defeated Persia and following his death the area was ruled by his Seleucid successors and then became a wealthy town of the Roman Empire through the efforts of Roman settlers and their slave labour .
Several centuries later , in 327 BC , Armenians are believed to have come to India , when some Armenians joined the auxiliary elements of the forces under the command of Alexander the Great when he crossed Armenia en route to India .
In the wars of the Diadochi ( 322 - 281 BC ) , the successors to the empire of Alexander the Great built increasingly bigger and bigger galleys .
When Alexander the Great entered Caria in 334 BC , Ada , who was in possession of the fortress of Alinda , surrendered the fortress to him .
Battle of Gabiene ( 316 BC ) was a second great battle ( after Paraitacene ) between two of Alexander the Great 's successors : Antigonus and Eumenes in the wars of the Diadochi .
After the death of Alexander the Great ( 323 BC ) , his generals immediately began squabbling over his empire .
Following the conquests of Alexander the Great and the settlement of the Tolistobogii , a Celtic tribe , around Pessinus and Gordium in the 270s BC , the city became a major Hellenistic center in the region of Galatia .
Among others , the manuscript collection discusses the well-known life-story of Alexander the Great , the son of Philip II , king of Macedon , who lived in the 4th century BC , and subjects classified as secular Middle Ages literature , including the Southern Slavic literature .
Alexander the Great 's general Ptolemy first occupied Coele-Syria in 318 BC .
A sarcophagus dated from the end of the fourth century BC , was found in Sidon , on which Alexander the Great and the King of Sidon are painted hunting a lion with a hunting dog similar in build to the dogs of Ashkelon , and similar in appearance to the Canaan dog .
It was not long after that Alexander the Great died in 323 BC .
`` For other uses , see Harpalus ( disambiguation ) '' Harpalus son of Machatas was an aristocrat of Macedon and boyhood friend of Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC .
Sulla captured Athens on March 1 , 86 BC , but Archelaus evacuated Piraeus , and landed in Boeotia , where he was defeated at the Battle of Chaeronea - notably the same site where Philip II of Macedon and a young Alexander the Great defeated combined Athenian and Theban resistance 250 years earlier , securing Macedonian supremacy .
About 28 miles ( 45 km ) west of Sahiwal , at Kamalia , is the site of a Malli city captured by Alexander the Great in 325 bc .
Alexander V of Macedon ( Greek : `` Ἀλέξανδρος Ε ' ὁ Μακεδών '' 294 BC ) , was the third and youngest son of Cassander and Thessalonica of Macedon , who was a half-sister of Alexander the Great .
The region of Lydia was later taken over by the Persian Empire in the 6th century BC and by Alexander the Great and his successors as of the 4th century .
The Persians were driven out by Alexander the Great in 334 BC .
Since Alexander the Great had invaded India in 325 BC , leaving a Greek state ( Gandhāra ) that long endured , the possibility exists that the Indians acquired the idea from the Greeks , but it could have been the other way around .
As an example , the use of the name `` Iran '' for Achaemenids in the Middle Persian book of Arda Viraf refers to the invasion of Iran by Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
In the 3rd century BC , during Alexander the Great 's advance through the region on his way to India , the ancient Greeks colonized the island , which they named Icaria after the Greek island in the Aegean Sea and the mythical hero Icarus ; apparently because they believed the island had a similar shape off its Aegean counterpart .
The Dàyuān were probably the descendants of the Greek colonies that were established by Alexander the Great and prospered within the Hellenistic realm of the Seleucids and Greco-Bactrians , until they were isolated by the migrations of the Yueh-Chih around 160 BC .
The conventions of this representation , head tilted , lips slightly parted , large-eyed , curling hair cut in locks grazing the neck , were developed in the third century BC to depict Alexander the Great ( Bieber 1964 ; Yalouris 1980 ) .
The entire hall was destroyed in 331 BC by the army of Alexander the Great .
During the second Persian occupation of Egypt ( 343-332 BC ) he led a revolt against the Persian rule in concert with his eldest son , from ca. 338 to 335 BC , a few years before the conquest of Egypt by Alexander the Great .
Cleitus the Black ( ) ( ca. 375 BC-328 BC ) was an officer of the Macedonian army led by Alexander the Great .
The banks of this river near the modern-day town of Biga were the site of the Battle of the Granicus , fought in 334 BC between the Greek army of Alexander the Great against the forces of the Persian Empire under King Darius III .
He was a disciple of Paraebates , the student of Aristippus , and the Suda says he lived at the time of Alexander the Great ( ruled 336–323 BC ) .
After the death of Philip 's son Alexander the Great in 323 BC , the Thracian Chersonese became the object of contention among Alexander 's successors .
Stratonicus ( in Greek Στρατόνικoς ; lived 4th century BC ) , of Athens , was a distinguished musician of the time of Alexander the Great ( 336–323 BC ) , of whom scarcely anything is recorded , except the sharp and witty rebuke which he administered to Philotas , when the latter boasted of a victory which he had gained over Timotheus .
Amastris ( in Greek Aμαστρις ; 306 - killed 284 BC ) , also called `` Amastrine '' , was the daughter of Oxyathres , the brother of the Persian king Darius III , was given by Alexander the Great in marriage to Craterus .
Their king , Alexander the Great ( 356-323 BC ) , whose mother adhered to the Dionysian cult , developed a reputation for inebriety .
Balacrus ( Greek : `` Bάλακρoς '' ) , the son of Nicanor , one of Alexander the Great 's `` Somatophylakes '' ( bodyguards ) , was appointed satrap of Cilicia after the battle of Issus , 333 BC .
Ptolemy ( ) ; died 309 BC ) was a nephew of Antigonus , the general of Alexander the Great ( 338–323 BC ) who afterwards became king of Asia .
In 331 BC the union was dissolved after all of its towns surrendered to Alexander the Great .
Nicocreon ( Greek Nικoκρέων ; lived 4th century BC ) was king of Salamis in Cyprus , at the time of Alexander the Great 's ( 336–323 BC ) expedition against Persia .
In 334 BC Alexander the Great took six battalions of pezhetairoi with him to Asia .
Alexander the Great ( 336–323 BC ) appointed him in 334 BC governor of Lydia and the other parts of the satrapy of Spithridates , and also placed under his command an army strong enough to maintain the Macedonian authority .
`` For persons with the same name , see Philotas ( disambiguation ) '' Philotas ( in Greek Φιλώτας ; lived 4th century BC ) was a Macedonian soldier , father of Parmenion , the general of Alexander the Great ( 336 — 323 BC ) .
Spithridates ( in Greek Σπιθριδάτης ; lived 4th century BC ) was satrap of Lydia and Ionia under the high king Darius III Codomannus was one of the Persian commanders at the battle of the Granicus , in 334 BC , in which engagement , while he was aiming a blow from behind at Alexander the Great , his arm was cut off by Cleitus , son of Dropides .
Mithridates ( in Greek Mιθριδατης or Mιθραδατης ; killed 334 BC ) was a Persian of high rank , and son-in-law of the king Darius III Codomannus , who was slain by Alexander the Great with his own hand , at the battle of the Granicus , 334 BC .
Amyntas ( in Greek Aμυντας ; died 330 BC ) was a Macedonian officer in Alexander the Great 's army , son of Andromenes from Tymphaia .
After the battle of the Granicus ( 334 BC ) Mithrines surrendered voluntarily to Alexander the Great , and was treated by him with great distinction .
Polemon ( in Greek Πoλεμων ; lived 4th century BC ) , son of Andromenes the Stymphaean , was a Macedonian officer in the service of Alexander the Great ( 336–323 BC ) .
Alcetas ( in Greek Ἀλκέτας ; died 320 BC ) , the brother of Perdiccas and son of Orontes from Orestis , is first mentioned as one of Alexander the Great 's generals in his Indian expedition .
On the death of Alexander , he espoused his brother 's party , and , at his orders , murdered in 322 BC Cynane , the half-sister of Alexander the Great , when she wished to marry her daughter Eurydice to Philip Arrhidaeus , the nominal king of Macedon .
Cynane ( in Greek Kυνανη or Kυνα , `` Kynane '' ; killed 323 BC ) was half-sister to Alexander the Great , and daughter of Philip II by Audata , an Illyrian princess .
Langarus ( died 335 BC ) , king of the Agrianians , was a contemporary of Alexander the Great ( 336–323 BC ) , with whom he ingratiated himself even before the death of Philip II , previous king of Macedon .
Arrhidaeus ( in Greek Aρριδαιoς or Aριδαιoς ; lived 4th century BC ) , one of Alexander the Great 's generals , was entrusted with the conduct of Alexander 's funeral to Egypt in 323 BC .
In 317 BC he assisted Polyperchon in restoring his cousin Olympias and the five-year-old king Alexander IV ( mother and son of Alexander the Great ) , to Macedonia .
According to Justin Philip had participated with his two brothers , Cassander and Iollas , in the conspiracy for the murder of Alexander the Great in 323 BC .
He was one of the royal youths who , according to the Macedonian custom , held offices about the king 's person , and was cup-bearer to Alexander the Great at the period of his last illness ( 323 BC ) .
Medius ( in Greek Mηδιoς ; lived 4th century BC ) , son of Oxythemis , was a native of Larissa in Thessaly and a friend of Alexander the Great .
Laomedon ( in Greek Λαoμέδων ; lived 4th century BC ) , native of Mytilene and son of Larichus , was one of Alexander the Great 's generals , and appears to have enjoyed a high place in his confidence even before the death of Philip II , as he was one of those banished by that monarch ( together with his brother Erigyius , Ptolemy , Nearchus , and others ) for taking part in the intrigues of the young prince .
Erigyius ( in Greek Eριγυιoς ; died 328 BC ) , a Mytilenaean , son of Larichus , was an officer in Alexander the Great 's army .
330 BC , Alexander the Great , marching through the borders of Aria on his way from Hyrcania against the Parthians , was met at a city named Susia by Satibarzanes , who made submission to him , and was rewarded for it by the restoration of his satrapy .
Caranus ( in Greek Kαρανoς ; died 329 BC ) , a Macedonian of the body called `` etairoi '' ( εταιρoι ) or guards , was one of the generals sent by Alexander the Great against Satibarzanes when he had a second time excited Aria to revolt .
Menedemus was one of the generals of Alexander the Great , who was sent in 329 BC against Spitamenes , satrap of Sogdiana , but was surprised and slain , together with 2000 foot-soldiers and 300 horse .
Pharnuches ( in Greek Φαρνούχης or Φαρνούχoς ) was a Lycian appointed by Alexander the Great to command the force sent into Sogdiana against Spitamenes in 329 BC .
Spitamenes ( in old Persian `` Spitamaneh '' ; born 370 BC and killed 328 BC ) was a Persian courtier in the Persian province of Sogdiana , involved in the collapse of the Persian Empire under the forces of Alexander the Great .
A general and courtier in the Persian court , Spitamenes held an undefined position in the province of Sogdiana during the collapse of the Achaemenid Empire in 330 BC and the brief rule of Artaxerxes V. Spitamenes betrayed in 329 BC his self-proclaimed sovereign Bessus , handing him over to Ptolemy , Alexander the Great 's general , with the hope of appeasing the latter .
Coenus ( in Greek Koινoς ; died 326 BC ) , a son of Polemocrates and son-in-law of Parmenion , was one of the ablest and most faithful generals of Alexander the Great in his eastern expedition .
Menander ( in Greek Mενανδρoς ; lived 4th century BC ) was an officer in the service of Alexander the Great .
Cleitus the White ( in Greek Kλείτoς Λευκός ; died 318 BC ) was an officer of Alexander the Great surnamed `` White '' to distinguish him from Cleitus the Black .
Sibyrtius ( Greek : ; lived 4th century BC ) was a Greek officer from Crete in the service of Alexander the Great , who was appointed by him , on his return from India ( 326 BC ) , governor of the province of Carmania .
Peucestas ( in Greek Πευκέστας ; lived 4th century BC ) was a native of the town of Mieza , in Macedonia , and a distinguished officer in the service of Alexander the Great .
Eratosthenes ( 276-194 BC ) drew an improved world map , incorporating information from the campaigns of Alexander the Great and his successors .
Stasanor ( in ; lived 4th century BC ) was a native of Soli in Cyprus who held a distinguished position among the officers of Alexander the Great .
Philip ( in Greek Φιλιππoς ; died 318 BC ) was satrap of Sogdiana , to which government he was first appointed by Alexander the Great himself in 327 BC .
`` For other persons with the same name , see Tlepolemus '' Tlepolemus ( in Greek Tληπoλεμoς ; lived 4th century BC ) was the son of Pythophanes and one of the `` hetairoi '' of Alexander the Great , who was joined in the government of the Parthians and Hyrcanii with Amminapes , a Parthian , whom Alexander had appointed satrap of those provinces .
Archon ( Ancient Greek : ; died 321 BC ) was a Pellaean , appointed satrap of Babylonia after the death of Alexander the Great ( 323 BC ) , is probably the same as the son of Cleinias mentioned in the Indian expedition of Alexander .
Taxiles ( in Greek Tαξίλης or Ταξίλας ; lived 4th century BC ) was the Greek chroniclers ' name for a prince or king who reigned over the tract between the Indus and the Hydaspes Rivers in the Punjab at the period of the expedition of Alexander the Great , 327 BC .
Philip ( in Greek Φιλιππoς ; died 326 BC ) , son of Machatas , was an officer in the service of Alexander the Great , who was appointed by him in 327 BC satrap of India , including the provinces westward of the Hydaspes , as far south as the junction of the Indus with the Acesines .
Ariobarzanes ( fl. 368 BC - 330 BC ) is the name of the Persian satrap of Persis who fought against Alexander the Great at the Battle of the Persian Gate as Alexander 's forces were making their way to Persepolis in 330 BC .
In 332 BC Mazaces handed over the country to Alexander the Great without a fight .
Nicanor ( in Greek Nικάνωρ ; died 330 BC ) , son of Parmenion , was a distinguished officer in the service of Alexander the Great .
Philotas ( in Greek Φιλωτας ; lived 4th century BC ) was a Macedonian officer in the service of Alexander the Great , who commanded one taxis or division of the phalanx during the advance into Sogdiana and India .
Philoxenus ( in Greek Φιλoξενoς ) was a Macedonian officer appointed to superintend the collection of the tribute in the provinces north of the Taurus Mountains after Alexander the Great 's return from Egypt ( 331 BC ) .
After the death of Alexander the Great ( 323 BC ) he supported the party of Perdiccas .
The Eastern Mediterranean Hellenistic kingdoms of the 3rd century BC , which grew out of Alexander the Great 's empire , formed a good example of a multipolar political world .
`` For other uses , see Neoptolemus ( disambiguation ) '' Neoptolemus ( in Greek Νεoπτόλεμος ; died 321 BC ) was a Macedonian officer of Alexander the Great .
Aristobulus of Cassandreia ( ca. 375 - 301 BC ) , Greek historian , son of Aristobulus , probably a Phocian settled in Cassandreia , accompanied Alexander the Great on his campaigns .
After its success against Athens in the Peloponnesian War , Sparta unsuccessfully sought to take the city from the Persians , but in 334 BC , Tralles surrendered to Alexander the Great without resistance and therefore was not sacked .
In 333 BC Alexander the Great defeated the Persians .
This , as well as the unwearied activity with which he laboured both for increasing the security and splendour of the city of Athens , gained for him the universal confidence of the people to such a degree , that when Alexander the Great demanded , in 335 BC , among the other opponents of the Macedonian interest , the surrender of Lycurgus also , who had , in conjunction with Demosthenes , exerted himself against the intrigues of Macedonia even as early as the reign of Philip , the people of Athens clung to him , and boldly refused to deliver him up .
Issus , a river in Cilicia , Asia Minor , where Alexander the Great defeated Darius in 333 BC .
The Alexander Sarcophagus is a late 4th century BC stone sarcophagus adorned with bas-relief carvings of Alexander the Great .
Some authors contend that the 4th century BC invasion of the borders of India by Alexander the Great laid the foundation of Indian martial arts by dispersing pankration techniques throughout the subcontinent , but to what extent parallels between Indian and Greek martial arts might also represent cases of parallel development is a subject of debate .
They replace the earlier Kharosthi numerals indigenous to India following the conquests of Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC .
However , the Athenians were not in the position to use the new Long Walls until Alexander the Great 's death in 323 BC .
In accounts written by his biographer Arrian , Alexander the Great mentions a planned coastal exploration of 323 BC that includes the eastern Arabian coast but does not mention Gerrha .
It was cleared by forces under the command of Alexander the Great in 331 BC as part of the construction of Alexandria city to be the marine base for his fleet .
Alexander the Great is said to have stopped at Pasni ( called 'Cysa ' in Arrian 's treatise `` Indica '' ) while unsuccessfully trying to rendezvous with his admiral , Nearchus , during a disastrous exodus via Makran after the Indian Campaign ( 325 BC ) .
After Alexander the Great 's campaigns in 330s BC and the subsequent collapse of the Achaemenid Empire , Sophene remained part of the newly independent kingdom of Greater Armenia .
During the succession struggle between Ptolemy and Antigonus that followed Alexander the Great 's death in 323 BC , Kyrenia was subdued under the rule of the kingdom of Lapithos that allied itself with Antigonus .
Its historical routes are linked with Alexander the Great , who stayed there with his army for a few days on his way back from the Indus region after conquering the lands of Sindh , Punjab and the North-West Frontier Province regions of modern-day Pakistan in 400 BC .
Abisares ( or Abhisara ; in Greek Αβισαρης ) , called Embisarus ( Eμβισαρoς ) by Diodorus , was an Indian king beyond the river Hydaspes , whose territory lay in the mountains , sent embassies to Alexander the Great both before and after the conquest of Porus in 326 BC , although inclined to espouse the side of the latter .
This crossroads has seen the passage of numerous armies and some of the biggest military campaigns in history , including the battle between Alexander the Great and Darius in 333 BC .
She greeted Alexander the Great here in 334 BC .
Pinara surrendered to Alexander the Great in 334 BC .
During the 4th century BC , after Alexander the Great 's conquest of the Indus Valley and Punjab region , the Greek currency Drachma was introduced and was carried on by Bactria , Indo-Scythians and Kushans .
Alexander the Great passed through this area ( old Nandana Fort ) near Ara on his way to fight Raja Porus on the banks of the Jhelum River in 326 BC .
This epic film was set in 326 BC when Alexander the Great , having conquered Persia and the Kabul Valley , descends on the Indian border at Jhelum and encounters Porus ( Modi ) , who stops the advance with his troops .
Alexander the Great and his army crossed the Jhelum in 326 BC at the Battle of the Hydaspes River where he defeated the Indian king , Porus .
All this knowledge was transferred to the Greeks probably shortly after the conquest by Alexander the Great ( 331 BC ) .
Most western scholars held the belief that Dhul-Qarnayn was the Macedonian King , Alexander the Great ( 336–323 BC ) .
As Alexander the Great 's Greek and Persian armies withdrew westwards , the satraps left behind by Alexander were defeated and conquered by Chandragupta Maurya who founded the Maurya Empire which ruled the region from 321 to 185 BC .
Cassander , the Macedonian general who inherited the Greek territorial possessions of Alexander the Great after his death , rebuilt the Cadmea in 316 BC .
The area has changed hands many times throughout history , from the Hittites in the 13th century BC through the Phrygians , Lydians , Ionians , Persians , Alexander the Great , Ancient Rome and Byzantium .
In 330 BC , the region was conquered by Alexander the Great .
Alexander the Great ordered restorations , and the temple continued to be maintained throughout the second century BC , as one of the last strongholds of Babylonian culture , such as literacy in the cuneiform script , but as Babylon was gradually abandoned under the Parthian Empire , the temple fell into decay in the first century BC .
After a brief rule under Alexander the Great , Akcaabat was incorporated into the Pontus Empire established by the son of a former Persian satrap , Mithridates around 3rd century BC .
The history of Fatsa goes back to antiquity , when the coast was settled by Cimmerians , Persian people and Ancient Greek colonists in the centuries BC , followed by Alexander the Great and his successors .
The area was settled by the Hittites in the 16th century BC , the Persians in the 6th century BC , conquered by Alexander the Great in 333 CE , and later passed into the hands of the Romans and Byzantines .
The Ancient Macedonians of Alexander the Great came to Anatolia in 331 BC and upon their dispersal rule of the Amasya region including Taşova passed to the Kings of Pontus ( in 291 BC ) , who remained in control until the arrival of the Romans .
Phrygians took over the region in 1200 BC and Alexander the Great later extended his rule to this part of Anatolia .
In the 4th century BC , the coins of Macedonian kings Philip II and Alexander the Great were used in Dacia , but also indigenous coins including the celebrated gold `` kosoni '' ( named so after the Dacian King depicted on most of the coins , Koson or Coson ) .
European contact with Buddhism first began after Alexander the Great 's conquest of northwestern India in the 3rd century BC .
In late 330 BC Alexander the Great , captured the Arian capital Artacoana .
According to the legend this name was given to them by Alexander the Great when he passed from the region in 335 BC on his way to Thebes .
Yet , with the conquests of Alexander the Great ( 333-323 BC ) and the subsequent establishment of Hellenistic kingdoms ( above all , the Seleucid Empire and Ptolemaic Kingdom ) , Koine Greek became the dominant language in politics , culture and commerce in the Near East .
Abdalonymus or , variously , Abdolonymus , Abdolonimus , and Abdalonimus ( ) was a gardener , but of royal descent , who was made king of Sidon by Alexander the Great in 332 BC .
All this knowledge was transferred to the Greeks probably shortly after the conquest by Alexander the Great ( 331 BC ) .
At the siege of Tyre in 332 BC divers were again used by Alexander the Great , according to Aristotle .
What is known of the history commences principally at the time that Alexander the Great surrounded the city in 333 BC , which he likened to an eagle 's nest and failed to conquer .
The Phoenicians are said to have surrendered it to Alexander the Great about 334 BC .
Sofia was originally a Thracian settlement called `` Serdica '' or Sardica ( Greek : Σερδική , Σαρδική ) , named after the Celtic tribe Serdi that had populated it.For a short period during the 4th century BC , the city was possessed by Philip of Macedon and his son Alexander the Great .
When Alexander the Great passed through Pisidia ( 333 BC ) , Selge sent an embassy to him and gained his favour and friendship .
Alexander The Great faced bitter resistance in Shorkot when fighting the Malhi in 325 BC .
The Italian-language libretto was adapted from `` Alessandro nell'Indie '' by Metastasio , and based on Alexander the Great 's encounter with King Porus in 326 BC .
The forces of Philip II of Macedon ( 339 BC ) , Alexander the Great ( 335 BC ) , the Celts and the Roman legions passed through the valley in the Antiquity .
Likewise in 348 BC the population of Olynthus was reduced to slavery , as was that of Thebes in 335 BC by Alexander the Great and that of Mantineia by the Achaean League .
Babylon remained a major city until Alexander the Great destroyed the Achaemenid Empire in 332 BC .
After two centuries of Achaemenid rule , Mesopotamia fell to Alexander the Great in 330 BC , and remained under Hellenistic rule for another two centuries , with Seleucia as capital from 305 BC .
The tomb dates to the 2nd or 3rd century BC , following the rule of Alexander the Great .
In 332 BC , Alexander the Great was welcomed as a liberator in Persian-occupied Egypt .
Ankara was conquered by Alexander the Great in 333 BC , who came from Gordion to Ankara and stayed in the city for a short period .
After the conquest of Egypt by Alexander the Great in 332 BC , the city was reestablished as a Greek town , called Oxyrhynchou Polis ( Οξυρρύγχου Πόλις - `` town of the sharp-snouted fish '' ) .
The Jews were first forced to migrate to East through Ghasr-e Shirin during ruling of Assyrian Empire in 800 BC. Alexander the Great made his way through the same road to invade Persia in 331 BC .
It is unlikely there would have been first-hand knowledge of Greeks in Gandhara before the conquests of Alexander the Great in the 330s BC , but it is likely that the name was known via Old Persian `` yauna '' , so that the occurrence of ' taken in isolation allows for a `` terminus post quem '' as early as 520 BC , i.e. the time of the conquest of Darius the Great .
Alexander the Great crossed the Indus in 327 BC with the ambition of conquering India .
In the 2nd century BC , a great line divided the commerce of the Mediterranean : the Aegean , Adriatic and Ionian seas were largely controlled by the maritime cities of the Greeks ( in Greece , Asia Minor , and , after Alexander the Great , Egypt ) , while the western Mediterranean was the commercial zone of the Carthaginians , with the exception of the Tyrrhenian Sea , which Carthage shared with the Etruscans and the Greek colonies of southern Italy .
Alexander the Great died in June , 323 BC , and the territory he had conquered was being fought over by the Diadochi , the generals of the Macedonian army ; Egypt , Greece , Macedonia , Asia Minor , and Syria were involved in incessant wars that threatened peaceful trade ; and Agathocles ascended the throne of Syracuse in 316 BC and began a campaign to rid Sicily of the Carthaginians , and in 311 BC , having been defeated in Sicily , carried the war to Africa before allying himself with Cyrenaica the following year .
By the time of the writing of 2 Maccabees ( first or second century BC ) , the Greeks had conquered Palestine under Alexander the Great , and the Hellenistic custom had apparently found acceptance with the Jews and was carried into Jewish rituals in New Testament times .
It was the place where the `` Treaty of Triparadisus '' occurred , in which Alexander the Great 's Empire was divided between his generals in 321 BC .
Alexander the Great encountered poisoned projectiles during his conquest of India ( probably dipped in the venom of Russell 's viper ) and the army of the Roman general Lucullus suffered grievous poison wounds from arrows shot by nomads during the Third Mithridatic War ( 1st century BC ) .
It was under the rule of Philip II , Alexander the Great and Lysimachus from 341 BC up to 280 BC , when it came under the control of the Thracian Odrysian kingdom from 280 BC .
The Persian Empire then conquered Commagene in the 6th century BC , and Alexander the Great conquered the territory in the 4th century BC .
About 334 BC , Alexander the Great tried to take over the city , but was repulsed by Memnon of Rhodes and 5,000 Greek mercenaries provided by Darius III of Persia .
After the destruction of the Seleucid Empire , a Hellenistic Greek successor state of Alexander the Great 's short-lived empire , a Hellenistic Armenian state was founded in 190 BC .
Alexander the Great was a Macedonian that spread the Greek culture with his conquests on the 4th Century BC ; Vangelis , himself a Greek , was already famous for his scores to `` Chariots of Fire '' , `` Blade Runner '' and `` Conquest of Paradise '' .
Samandağ lies near the site of the ancient Seleucia Pieria , founded in 300 BC by Seleucus Nicator a general of Alexander the Great , in the Seleucid era that followed Alexander 's demise .
The Golan Heights , along with the rest of the region , came under the control of Alexander the Great in 332 BC , following the Battle of Issus .
In the late 4th century BC , Alexander the Great conquered the region , putting it under Hellenistic Seleucid rule for nearly two centuries .
The loss of length in the popular 4th century BC Attic and the spread of Greek under Alexander the Great led to a reorganization of the vowels in the phonology of Koine Greek .
The Ptolemaic Kingdom ( ) in and around Egypt began following Alexander the Great 's conquest in 332 BC and ended with the death of Cleopatra VII and the Roman conquest in 30 BC .
In 332 BC , Alexander the Great , King of Macedon , conquered Egypt , with little resistance from the Persians .
A major Mediterranean port of Egypt , in ancient times and still today , Alexandria was founded in 331 BC by Alexander the Great , one of the many Eastern Greek cities that he established .
A century later , the `` Men of the Mountain Land , '' from north of Kabul River , served in the army of Darius III of Persia when he fought against Alexander the Great at Arbela in 331 BC .
Around 326 BC when Alexander the Great invaded the lower Jhelum belt to fight with Porus , this region was known as Dravabhisar .
The House of the Faun is most famously known for the Alexander Mosaic , depicting the Battle of Issus in 333 BC between Alexander the Great and Darius III of Persia .
Ancient Greece and the armies of Alexander the Great ( 336 BC–323 BC ) invaded and conquered some parts of North Africa and his generals set up the Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt .
In 336 BC , Alexander the Great 's empire was spreading , and many in Athens were opposed to the ongoing wars .
In 333 BC Alexander the Great intended to lay an ambush at Myriandrus of Darius III of Persia but in the end the battle took place near Issus .
Some historians believe that Alexander the Great 's troops brought leprosy from India to Europe during the 3rd century BC .
In the early 4th century BC , Alexander the Great invaded the Mid East and brought Greek culture with him with its emphasis on mind and body .
Roxana ( 4th century BC ) was a Bactrian noble and a wife of Alexander the Great .
The first recorded defensive walls built here was the work of Lysimachos , a `` successor '' ( diadochus ) of Alexander the Great , later a king ( 306 BC ) in Thrace and Asia Minor .
In the 3rd century BC , Macedonian king Alexander the Great ( known in East as Sikander ) annexed the region during his conquest of the Persian Empire and founded the colony of `` Alexandria in Arachosia '' ( modern Kandahar ) .
Also , Darius III of Persia who ruled from 336 BC to 330 BC was known to counter Alexander the Great 's attacks with camel mounted warriors .
Seuthes III ( Ancient Greek , `` Σεύθης '' ) was a king of the Odrysian kingdom of Thrace from ca. 331 BC to ca. 300 BC , at first tributary to Alexander the Great of Macedon .
In 326 BC , Alexander the Great , whose forces were then fighting against the army of King Porus , at the left bank of river Jhelum near Southern Salt Range , wrote in a letter to his mother and said , ‘I am involved in the land of leonine ( lion-like ) and brave people called 'Khukhrain’ , where every foot of the ground is like a wall of steel , confronting my soldiers .
His name does not occur among the officers or generals of Alexander the Great ( 336–323 BC ) during the lifetime of that monarch , though it is incidentally mentioned by Phylarchus in terms that would seem to imply that he then already occupied a distinguished position .
It was because of this that she was captured by Alexander the Great after the Battle of Issus , in 333 BC at Issus .
Since Alexander the Great had invaded Ancient India in 325 BC , leaving a Greek state ( Gandhāra ) that long endured , the possibility exists that the Indians acquired the idea from the Greeks , but it could have been the other way around .
It is the story of Alexander the Great 's invasion of the Afghan kingdoms ( the Afghanistan of today ) in 330 BC through the eyes of Matthias ( Μαντίθεος in Greek ) , a young soldier from Macedonia , who narrates the adventures of the Greek army against the Eastern warriors .
It is on the historical route taken by Alexander the Great in 331 BC between the Persian Gates and Persepolis .
From 104 BC to 102 BC Emperor Wu of Han waged war against the Yuezhi who controlled Dayuan , a Hellenized kingdom of Fergana that was established by Alexander the Great in 329 BC .
In the context of the art , architecture , and culture of Ancient Greece , the classical period corresponds to most of the 6th , 5th and 4th centuries BC ( the most common dates being the fall of the last Athenian tyrant in 510 BC to the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC ) .
Philip 's son Alexander the Great born in Pella , Macedonia ( 356–323 BC ) .
Alexander the Great died in 323 BC in Babylon during his Asian campaign of conquest .
The classical period conventionally ends at the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC and the fragmentation of his empire , divided among the Diadochi .
In the late 4th century BC Alexander the Great led his Greco-Macedonian army to conquer the Achaemenid Empire .
The conquests of Alexander the Great in the late 4th century BC spread Greek culture and colonization over non-Greek lands , including Judea and Galilee , and gave rise to the Hellenistic age , which sought to create a common or universal culture in the Alexandrian empire based on that of 5th and 4th century BC Athens ( see also Age of Pericles ) , along with a fusion of Near Eastern cultures .
After Alexander the Great 's campaigns in 330s BC and the subsequent collapse of the Achaemenid Empire , it became one of the first regions of Armenia to be exposed to Greek influence and adopted some aspects of Greek culture .
Mithrobouzanes was killed at the Battle of the Granicus ( 334 BC ) , and Abistamenes was thereafter appointed satrap by Alexander the Great , although his hold over Cappadocia appears to have been weak , as Cappadocian soldiers were found fighting for King Darius III of Persia during the Battle of Gaugamela ( 331 BC ) .
Left on their own , the Ducks begin their quest , when they accidentally discover a stone pillar , dating back to 326 BC , and tells the tale of Alexander the Great 's attempt to conquer Kolkata .
Aeschylus ( Gr. ) of Rhodes was appointed by Alexander the Great one of the inspectors of the governors of that country after its conquest in 332 BC .
375–316 BC ) was an Epirote princess , the fourth wife of the king Philip II of Macedon and the mother of Alexander the Great .
Neoptolemus I of Epirus ( ) ( 370 - 357 BC ) king of Epirus was son of Alcetas I , and father of Alexander I of Epirus and Olympias , the mother of Alexander the Great .
While yet a girl she was betrothed by her father to Alexander IV , the son of Roxana and Alexander the Great , and having accompanied that prince and Olympias into Macedonia , was besieged in Pydna ( 316 BC ) together with them .
Alexander the Great was an ancient Greek king of Macedon ( 336–323 BC )
[ If true , this must have been reported by `` Homer the Younger '' ( Homerus of Byzantium ) who lived in the 3rd century BC , because Homer lived about 850 BC , - 500 years before Alexander the Great was born in 356 BC . ]
Alexandria was founded by Alexander the Great in 332 BC ( the exact date is disputed ) as ( `` Aleksándreia '' ) .
Supposedly Alexander the Great fought a battle against the locals here in 326 BC , at the mount Pir Sar ( see Aornos ) .
Hellenistic culture spread throughout the Macedonian Empire created by Alexander the Great from the later 4th century BC .
Alexander the Great would employ this strategy in reverse in winter of 333 BC .
The Sacred Band of Thebes ( an elite military unit ) famously fell at the battle of Chaeronea in 338 BC against Philip II and Alexander the Great .
After him came Bardyllis II and Cleitus the Illyrian that was defeated by Alexander the Great when he rebelled against Macedon 's rule.Glaukias of the Taulanti ( 335- 302 BC ) had come to Cleitu 's aid but was defeated as well.Decades later Queen Teuta of Issa regent to Pinnes ( 230 BC - 228 BC ) fought against both the Greeks and the Romans and practiced piracy..The tribes of Daesiates , Pannonians and Breuci led the revolt against the Romans led mainly by Pinnes of Pannnonia , Bato I and Bato II .
In 358 BC , however , Philip II of Macedon , the father of Alexander the Great , utterly crushed the Illyrians and assumed control of their territory as far as Lake Ohrid .
In ( 335 BC ) , Alexander the Great engaged the Thracians in order to secure the northern boundary of the Macedonian kingdom .
Amphoterus ( Greek : ) the brother of Craterus , was appointed by Alexander the Great commander of the fleet in the Hellespont in 333 BC .
In the spring of 327 BC Alexander the Great crossed the Indian Caucasus ( Hindu Kush ) and advanced to Nicaea , where he was joined by Omphis , king of Taxila , and other chiefs .
To Alexander the Great the city of Alexandria owes its foundation ( 332 BC ) , and under the Hellenistic dynasty of the Ptolemies attempts were made to penetrate southward , and in this way was obtained some knowledge of Ethiopia .
In 342 BC , it was conquered by Philip II of Macedon , the father of Alexander the Great , who renamed it `` Φιλιππόπολις '' , `` Philippopolis '' or `` the city of Philip '' in his own honour .
Umm Qasr was originally a small fishing town , but was said to have been the site of Alexander the Great 's landing in Mesopotamia in 325 BC .
The arrival of Alexander the Great in 332 BC ushered in the 300 years rule of the Ptolemaic dynasty where Greek culture would challenge the old beliefs .
Laodice bore Antiochus about 358 BC , a son Seleucus I Nicator , who would became a general of Alexander the Great and later founded and became the first king of the Seleucid Empire and a daughter Didymeia .
The history of region dates back to 326 BC when Alexander the Great and his troops camped in the area of Jalalpur Sharif prior to their battle with Raja Porus.About 9 kilometers north of jlalpur sharif the village `` Nagial '' is located .
It is mentioned in the Athenian tribute lists in ca. 450 BC and again in 425 BC , and then disappears again from the historical record until 333 BC , when Alexander the Great is said to have unsuccessfully besieged it .
332 BC — Alexander the Great took Tyre following the city 's siege .
After the death of Alexander the Great on 11 June 323 BC , his empire disintegrated .
There are inscriptions left by Alexander the Great 's cohorts in the 4th century BC .
Batis was a commander of the city of Gaza in the Achaemenid Empire during the 4th Century BC and an antagonist of Alexander the Great during his eastern campaigns .
Alexander the Great 's conquest of much of the known world in the 4th century BC gave Hellenistic travelers access to the civilizations of the Egyptians , Persians , and Babylonians .
Alexippus ( Ancient Greek : ) was an ancient Greek physician who was mentioned by Plutarch as having received a letter from Alexander the Great himself , to thank him for having cured one of his officers , a man named Peucestas , of a wound incurred during a bear hunt probably around 327 BC .
Despite three attempts at rebellion in 522 BC , 521 BC and 482 BC , the land and city of Babylon remained solidly under Persian rule for two centuries , until Alexander the Great 's entry in 331 BC .
In 331 BC , Darius III was defeated by the forces of the Ancient Greek ruler Alexander the Great at the Battle of Gaugamela , and in October , Babylon fell to the young conqueror .
The second layer is from the fourth century BC and existed at the time of the invasion of Alexander the great .
Alexander the Great passed through Gordium in 333 BC , famously severing the Gordian Knot in the temple of Sabazios ( `` Zeus '' ) .
The Hellenistic period chronologically covers the conquests of Alexander the Great ( 356-323 BC ) , the fall of the Persian Empire , in particular , the Achaemenid Empire ( 550-330 BC ) and , finally , the beginning of the expansion of the Roman Empire ( second half of the 1st c .
Although the mosaic technique at the time was practiced in a desultory way , it is the predecessor of the elaborated mosaic vessels of high quality of the Alexandrian workshops , after the foundation of the city of Alexandria in Egypt in 332 BC by Alexander the Great , which is said to be the main production centre of these vessels ( Harden 1969 ; Goldstein 1979 ) .
Besides the foundations of the 13th century BC town , the 4th century BC findings are Hydriai , painted Kantharoi and Skyphoi , 25 very rare golden coins from the time of Philip II and Alexander the Great valued at 50,000€ each , Brnjica culture pottery of the early Iron Age ( 1200BC ) .
The Hellenistic period began at 323 BC with the death of Alexander the Great .
Pharnabazus ( in Greek Φαρνάβαζος ; c. 370 BC - after 320 BC ) was a Persian satrap who fought against Alexander the Great .
It is assumed that he eventually submitted to Alexander , since in 324 BC , Artonis , the sister of Pharnabazus , was given in marriage to Eumenes by Alexander the Great ; and in 321 BC we find Pharnabazus commanding a squadron of cavalry for Eumenes , in the battle in which he defeated Craterus and Neoptolemus .
According to the Greek historical texts which bring mention of the city of Sialkot dating back to 327 BC when the city was known as Sagala , it represented the eastern-most outpost and expansion of the Hellenic Empire created by Alexander the Great which has been cross-correlated to ancient Greek maps of the era and several monuments found in the Sialkot district .
Menes of Pella ( Greek : ) , son of Dionysius , was one of the officers of Alexander the Great ; and after the Battle of Issus ( 333 BC ) was admitted by the king into the number of his somatophylakes , in the place of Balacrus , who was promoted to the satrapy of Cilicia .
Cebalinus or Kebalinos ( ) , a brother of Nicomachus , who lived on licentious terms with Dimnus , the author of the plot against the life of Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
`` For other persons with the same name , see Sopolis '' Sopolis ( Greek : ) , son of Hermodorus , was hipparch of the ile of Hetairoi from Amphipolis , since at least the Triballian campaign of Alexander the Great 335 BC .
`` For other persons with the same name , see Heraclides '' Heraclides or Heracleides , son of Antiochus , was hipparch of the ile of Hetairoi from Bottiaea , from the Triballian campaign of Alexander the Great in 335 BC until the battle of Gaugamela .
Heromenes and Arrhabaeus were accused of conspiring with Pausanias of Orestis to assassinate Philip II of Macedon in October 336 BC and executed by Alexander the Great .
Philotas was a Macedonian officer , appointed phrourarch on the Cadmea , at the time of the revolt of the Thebans against Alexander the Great , 335 BC .
In the battle of Malli in 325 BC , he accompanied Alexander the Great , Leonnatus , Peucestas and a certain Limnaeus .
He is first mentioned as bringing a considerable force to the assistance of Cleitus of Dardania , another Illyrian prince , against Alexander the Great , in the battle of Pelium 335 BC .
`` For other persons with the same name , see Ariston '' Ariston was a comic actor , who performed at the Susa weddings of Alexander the Great in 324 BC
Heracon ( Greek : ) officer in the service of Alexander the Great , who , together with Cleander , Agathon and Sitalces II , succeeded to the command of the army in Media , which had previously been under the orders of Parmenion , when the latter was put to death by order of Alexander , 330 BC .
He was left behind with an undisclosed force to occupy the city of Priapus in Troad , which surrendered to Alexander the Great as he continued to Granicus in 334 BC .
Zephyrus , according to the apocryphal Letter to Aristotle 14 ( See Secretum Secretorum ) , was the soldier , who brought Alexander the Great a helmet full of water when the army was suffering greatly in the Gedrosian desert ( 325 BC ) .
Pantaleon ( ) was a Macedonian `` hetairos '' from Pydna , who was appointed by Alexander the Great as phrourarch of Memphis in 331 BC .
Hegelochus survived the disgrace of his relative , Attalus , who was murdered on Alexander the Great 's instructions in 336/5 BC .
BC , dedicated to Alexander the Great ) .
Xylinepolis ( Greek : wooden city ) was a temporary military fortress ( `` phrourion '' ) in the naval base of Patala , founded in 325 BC by Alexander the Great .
`` Not to be confused with Alexandropolis the modern Greek city of Thrace '' Alexandropolis in the Thracian region of Maedians , was the first town founded in 340 BC by Alexander the Great , after defeating the local tribe , as a regent ( `` epitropos '' ) of Macedon .
Andromachus of Cyprus was an allied admiral of Alexander the Great during the Siege of Tyre ( 332 BC ) . ( Arrian , Ana ii. 20 . )
The Balkan campaign of Alexander the Great took place in 335 BC , against a number of rebellious vassals of the Macedonian kingdom .
The Sacred Band of Thebes was completely annihilated , however , by Alexander the Great under Philip II of Macedon in the Battle of Chaeronea in 338 BC .
In 334 BC , the time Alexander the Great crossed into Asia , Alexander I the Molossian lead an expedition in southern Italy in support of the Greek cities of Magna Graecia against the nearby Italian tribes and the emerging Roman Republic .
Jerusalem was taken by Alexander the Great in 332 BC , in between his siege of Tyre and the conquest of Egypt .
Sometime in 335 BC , just before the battle of Pelium , it was occupied by Dardanians , led by Cleitus of Dardania , who fought along with Glaucias of Taulanti against Alexander the Great .
Patraus ( 340 BC - 315 BC ) was an ancient Paeonian king.He seems to have been Ariston 's brother that served as a general to Alexander the Great .
These sites lay just outside the lands conquered by Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC .
Records relating to the invasion of Alexander the great in 326 BC mention the existence of almost impenetrable forests along the Indus .
The Battle of Gaugamela , in which Alexander the Great defeated Darius III of Persia in 331 BC , took place about one hundred kilometres ( sixty miles ) west of Arbil .
According to Plutarch , when the forces of Alexander the Great seized Thebes during Alexander 's Balkan campaign of 335 BC , Thracian forces pillaged the city , and the captain of the Thracian forces raped Timoclea , a lady of high birth .
The Alexander Mosaic , a floor mosaic dating from c. 100 BC , is believed to be a `` reasonably faithful '' copy of `` Battle of Issus '' , though an alternative view holds it might instead be a copy of a work painted by Apelles of Kos , who produced several portraits of Alexander the Great .
The first coins in India were minted around the 6th century BC by the Mahajanapadas of the Indo-Gangetic Plain , and certainly before the invasion of Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC .
In order to threaten both the Persian forces in Asia Minor and Syria , his first move was to sail from Constantinople down the Ionian coast to Rhodes and then east to Cilicia , landing at Issus , where Alexander the Great had defeated the Persians in 333 BC .
In 329 BC , Alexander the Great founded Alexandria Eschate ( `` Farthest Alexandria '' ) to the southewest of the Jaxartes river valley , site of the modern Khokand in Tajikistan .
Parysatis , the youngest daughter of Artaxerxes III of Persia , married Alexander the Great in 324 BC at The Susa weddings .
The legacy of the huge conquests of Alexander the Great , king of Macedon , ( died 323 BC ) was a number of powerful monarchies in the eastern Mediterranean , established by Alexander 's generals ( the so-called Diadochi ) , when they shared his empire between them .
A. Abdisho IV Maron , Patriarch of the Chaldean Catholic Church Peter Abelard , French priest , scholar , thrologian Gabriele Adorno , fifth Doge of Genoa Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa , German alchemist , writer Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa , Roman statesman and general Gnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus , Roman consul ( 32 BC ) 3rd Duke of Alba , Governor of the Spanish Netherlands Albert of Mainz , Elector and Archbishop of Mainz Alexander the Great , King of Macedon Brigadier General Edward Porter Alexander , American military commander Tsarina Alexandra of Russia , consort of Tsar Nicholas II Tsarevich Alexei Petrovich of Russia , son of Peter the Great Alfonso I d'Este , Duke of Ferrara , husband of Lucrezia Borgia Alfonso II d'Este , Duke of Ferrara King Alfred the Great , legendary Anglo-Saxon king Al-Mansur Ibn Abi Aamir , aka Almanzor , de facto ruler of al-Andalus Jacob Johan Anckarström , Swedish military officer , assassin of Gustav III Anna of Bavaria , Holy Roman Empress , Queen of Rome and Bavaria Queen Anne ( Boleyn ) , second consort of Henry VIII of England Susan B. Anthony , American women’s rights activist Antiochus I Soter , King of the Seleucid Empire Gustaf Mauritz Armfelt , Finnish-Swedish diplomat , possible lover of Gustav III of Sweden King Arthur , legendary king of Britain Atys , son of King Croesus of Lydia B. Michael Andreas Barclay de Tolly , Russian prince and general Ottoman Sultan Bayezid I `` The Thunderbolt '' Saint Thomas Becket , Archbishop of Canterbury Olga Benário Prestes , German-Brazilian communist militant Levin August , Count von Bennigsen , German general Louis Alexandre Berthier , Marshall of France Joe Biden , Vice President of the United States Otto von Bismarck , first Chancellor of Germany Francisco de Bobadilla , Spanish colonial administrator Simone Boccanegra , first Doge of Genoa George Boleyn , Viscount Rochford , brother of Anne Boleyn Caroline Bonaparte , Queen Consort of Naples and Sicily , sister of Napoleon Pauline Bonaparte , Princess of France , sister of Napoleon Lizzie Borden , American celebrity and possible axe-murderer Saint Francis Borgia , Spanish Superior-General of the Jesuits Lucrezia Borgia , daughter of Pope Alexander VI John Hobhouse , 1st Baron Broughton , British memoirist and politician John Brown , Sergeant of the Second Battalion , Boston Light Infantry Volunteer Militia Antonín Brus z Mohelnice , Archbishop of Prague Marcus Junius Brutus the Younger , Roman politician , co-assassin of Julius Caesar William Jennings Bryan , U.S. Secretary of State , presidential candidate George Villiers , 2nd Duke of Buckingham , English poet , statesman William Cecil , 1st Baron Burghley , English statesman , adviser to Elizabeth I Anne Isabella Byron , Baroness Byron , wife of Lord Byron George Gordon Byron , 6th Baron Byron , English poet C. Alessandro Cagliostro ( Giuseppe Balsamo ) , Italian adventurer and imposter Lorenzo Campeggio , Cardinal Protector of England Carlos , Prince of Asturias , son of Philip II of Spain Julian Carlton , American murderer of Mamah Cheney , mistress of Frank Lloyd Wright Giacomo Casanova , Italian adventurer and libertine Servilius Casca , co-assassin of Julius Caesar Gaius Cassius Longinus , Roman politician , co-assassin of Julius Caesar Inês de Castro , lover and lawful wife of King Peter I of Portugal Empress Catherine II `` The Great '' of Russia Catherine of Aragon , first wife of Henry VIII of England Armand Augustin Louis de Caulaincourt , French general Arthur Cecil , English actor , theatre manager Benvenuto Cellini , Italian sculptor , goldsmith , artisan Beatrice Cenci , Italian noblewoman , protagonist of a famous murder trial Lindy Chamberlain and Michael Chamberlain , New Zealand-Australian parents , wrongly convicted of the murder of their daughter Azaria Charles the Bold , Duke of Burgundy Charles Martel , Duke and Prince of the Franks Thomas Chatterton , English poet and forger Geoffrey Chaucer , English author , poet , philosopher , courtier and diplomat Mamah Cheney , wife of Edwin Cheney , murdered mistress of Frank Lloyd Wright Saint Christopher , revered but legendary saint Tillius Cimber , co-assassin of Julius Caesar Henri Coiffier de Ruzé , Marquis of Cinq-Mars , French royal favourite of Louis XIII Henry Clifford , 10th Baron de Clifford , English military commander Hillary Rodham Clinton , U.S .
So Alexander the Great could take Egypt without fighting ( 332 BC ) .
